ITEM 1A Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10-K, with respect to any investment in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Dependence on ILUVIEN® We are heavily dependent on the commercial success of our lead product candidate, ILUVIEN, which only recently received a positive outcome from the Decentralized Procedure with the issuance of a Final Assessment Report (FAR) from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the United Kingdom (MHRA) indicating that it is approvable in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain, and on the regulatory approval of ILUVIEN for the treatment of DME in the U.S. and other countries, which may never occur. We are a biopharmaceutical company with no products yet available for commercial sale. As a result, our future success is currently dependent upon the commercial and regulatory success of ILUVIEN, our lead product candidate, for the treatment of DME in Europe and the U.S. In February 2012, ILUVIEN received a positive outcome from the Decentralized Procedure with the issuance of a FAR from the MHRA indicating that it is approvable for commercial use to treat vision impairment associated with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain. ILUVIEN has not been approved by the FDA in the U.S. and may never receive such approval. The timing of the commercial launch of ILUVIEN in the EU countries is dependent upon each specific EU country pricing and reimbursement timelines, and we do not anticipate commercial sales of ILUVIEN until late 2012, at the earliest. Because we do not currently have any product candidates available for sale or in clinical development other than ILUVIEN, our future success is dependent upon either building a commercial operation in the EU or partnering with a company that has an established commercial operation there to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in the EU, obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA to market ILUVIEN for the treatment of DME in the U.S., and if approved by the FDA, successfully commercializing ILUVIEN in the U.S. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate revenues will depend solely on the successful commercialization of ILUVIEN in the seven EU countries in which it has been recommended for marketing authorization. If we do not successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in the EU and/or receive regulatory approval in the U.S. for ILUVIEN for the treatment of DME, our ability to generate revenue will be jeopardized and, consequently, our business will be seriously harmed. We may not succeed in our commercial efforts in the EU; we may not receive regulatory approval in the U.S. for ILUVIEN; and if we do receive regulatory approval in the U.S. for ILUVIEN, we may not be able to commercialize ILUVIEN successfully, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In the near term, we may experience delays and unforeseen difficulties in the launch of ILUVIEN in one or more of the EU countries, including obtaining unfavorable pricing and/or reimbursement, which could negatively affect our stock price. We may continue to experience delays in obtaining regulatory approval in the U.S. for ILUVIEN, if it is approved at all, and our stock price may be negatively affected. In addition, we have and expect to continue to incur significant expenses and to utilize a substantial portion of our existing cash resources as we prepare for the commercial launch of ILUVIEN in the EU countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization, continue to pursue the approval of ILUVIEN in the U.S. and continue to grow our operational capabilities. This represents a significant investment in the commercial and regulatory success of ILUVIEN, which is uncertain. We may also fail to develop future product candidates for the reasons stated in “Risks Related to Our Business and Industry.” If this were to occur, we will continue to be dependent on the successful commercialization of ILUVIEN, our development costs may increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. 23 Table of Contents Although we have a Final Assessment Report from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the United Kingdom indicating that the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain had reached a consensus that ILUVIEN was approvable and that the decentralized procedure was complete, ILUVIEN has not received formal marketing approval in such countries. Any failure or delay in obtaining such approvals in the EU countries could severely harm our business. In February 2012, we received a FAR from the MHRA indicating that the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain had reached a consensus that ILUVIEN was approvable and that the decentralized procedure was complete. Upon receipt of the FAR, we entered the national phase with each of these seven countries. During the national phase, labeling in each country’s local language is finalized. The process for receiving formal marketing approval in these seven countries varies from country to country. We believe that the timing for formal approval can be anywhere from 30 days to 6 months following the issuance of a FAR, depending on the jurisdiction. However, we can provide no assurances that we will receive approvals during such time period. Our revenue from sales of ILUVIEN in the EU countries in which it has been recommended for marketing authorization is dependent upon the pricing and reimbursement guidelines adopted in each of such countries, which levels may fall well below our current expectations. We have not currently priced ILUVIEN in any jurisdiction, but have developed estimates of anticipated pricing in countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization. These estimates are our expectations, which are based upon the burden of DME, the lack of any approved therapies for chronic DME, our perception of the overall cost to benefit ratio of ILUVIEN and the current pricing in the EU of therapies to treat DME and other retinal diseases such as AMD and RVO. However, due to numerous factors beyond our control, including efforts to provide for containment of health care costs, one or more EU countries may not support our estimated level of governmental pricing and reimbursement for ILUVIEN, particularly in light of the ongoing budget crises faced by a number of countries in the EU, which would negatively impact anticipated revenue from ILUVIEN in the EU. Expansion of our commercial infrastructure in the EU is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources, and we may not be successful in our efforts. We may also encounter unexpected or unforeseen delays in establishing a commercial infrastructure in the EU, which may negatively impact our commercial efforts for ILUVIEN. In February 2012, ILUVIEN was recommended for marketing authorization in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain for the treatment of vision impairment associated with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapy. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate revenues will depend solely on the successful commercialization of ILUVIEN in the seven EU countries in which it has been recommended for marketing authorization. Subject to EU country-specific reimbursement timelines, we currently plan to engage in pricing and reimbursement discussions for ILUVIEN in the third quarter of 2012 and launch in those countries as soon as possible after concluding discussions. We currently plan to launch ILUVIEN in late 2012, at the earliest. A commercial launch of this size is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources. At present, we have no established commercial infrastructure in the EU, and are evaluating either building a commercial operation or partnering with an organization that has an established commercial operation there to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in the EU. If we choose to build our own commercial infrastructure in the EU we will need to create a commercial infrastructure and hire managerial, sales and marketing personnel there. The expansion of our workforce into the EU will require additional financial resources and require significant management attention. We may not be able to establish a commercial operation in a cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on this investment. In addition, we will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products without strategic partners or licensees include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of ophthalmologists to prescribe our products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a commercial organization in the EU. 24 Table of Contents If we are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure or if we do not successfully enter into appropriate collaboration arrangements with third-parties, we will have difficulty commercializing ILUVIEN and our other product candidates, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be successful in establishing a commercial operation in the EU for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, failing to attract, retain and motivate the necessary skilled personnel and failing to develop a successful marketing strategy. Failure to establish a commercial operation in the EU will have a negative outcome on our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN and generate revenue. Additionally, we may encounter unexpected or unforeseen delays in establishing our commercial operations that delay the commercial launch in one or more EU countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization. These delays may increase the cost of and the resources required for successful commercialization of ILUVIEN in the EU. Given our limited commercial history, we do not have experience in a commercial launch of this size in the EU. Although we may choose to pursue a partnership to establish a commercial operation for the launch of ILUVIEN in the EU, we have not yet entered into any agreements related to the marketing of ILUVIEN in any EU market and we may not be able to enter into any arrangements with respect to EU collaborations on favorable terms or at all. In addition, these arrangements could result in lower levels of income to us than if we marketed ILUVIEN entirely on our own. If we are unable to enter into appropriate marketing arrangements for ILUVIEN in the EU, we may not be able to develop an effective international sales force to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in the EU. ILUVIEN may not be commercially successful. Market acceptance of and demand for ILUVIEN will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • cost of treatment; • pricing and availability of alternative products; • our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement for ILUVIEN; • perceived efficacy relative to other available therapies; • shifts in the medical community to new treatment paradigms or standards of care; relative convenience and ease of administration; and • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects associated with treatment. Because we have not yet commercialized ILUVIEN, we have limited information with regard to the market acceptance of ILUVIEN in the EU or elsewhere. As a result, we may have to revise our estimates regarding the acceptance of ILUVIEN under our anticipated pricing structure, reevaluate and/or change the anticipated pricing for ILUVIEN. 25 Table of Contents The activities of competitive drug companies, or others, may limit ILUVIEN’s revenue potential or render it obsolete. Our commercial opportunities for ILUVIEN will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or market products that: • are more effective; • have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; • are better tolerated; • receive better reimbursement terms; • are more accepted by physicians; • are more adaptable to various modes of dosing; • have better distribution channels; • are easier to administer; or • are less expensive, including but not limited to a generic version of ILUVIEN. We expect that ILUVIEN may compete in the EU, and, if approved by the FDA, in the U.S., with other products that are being developed for the treatment of DME. There are no ophthalmic drug therapies currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of DME. Lucentis, a drug sponsored by Genentech, Inc., a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group is approved for the treatment of visual impairment due to DME in the EU and has filed for approval in the U.S. Lucentis is expected to provide competition for ILUVIEN. Retinal specialists are currently using laser photocoagulation and off-label therapies for the treatment of DME, and may continue to use these therapies in competition with ILUVIEN. Additional treatments for DME are in various stages of preclinical or clinical testing. Later stage products for the treatment of DME include Ozurdex, a drug sponsored by Allergan, Inc. and Eyelea, a drug sponsored by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Bayer HealthCare. If approved, these treatments would also compete with ILUVIEN. Other laser, surgical or pharmaceutical treatments for DME may also compete against ILUVIEN. These competitive therapies may result in pricing pressure even if ILUVIEN is otherwise viewed as a preferable therapy. In addition, there are many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities, government agencies and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of products, some of which may target the same indications as our product candidates. Our competitors include larger, more established, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that have substantially greater capital resources, existing competitive products, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater marketing capabilities than we do. Failure to successfully manage our international operations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have limited international commercialization experience and international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, there are many risks inherent in international business activities including, but not limited to: • extended collection timelines for accounts receivable and greater working capital requirements; • multiple legal systems and unexpected changes in legal requirements; • tariffs, export restrictions, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • trade laws and business practices favoring local competition; • potential tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings, multiple and conflicting and complex tax laws and regulations; 26 Table of Contents • weaker intellectual property protection in some countries; • political instability, including war and terrorism or the threat of war and terrorism; and • adverse economic conditions, including the stability and solvency of business financial markets, financial institutions and sovereign nations. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions, and our international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, partners and other persons with whom we do business will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws. Any violations of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We are not currently generating revenues and we cannot estimate with precision the extent of our future losses. Although ILUVIEN recently has been recommended for marketing authorization in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain, we do not currently have any products that are available for commercial sale and we may never generate revenue from selling products or achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses through the projected commercialization of ILUVIEN. We currently do not expect to generate revenue from the sale of ILUVIEN in the EU until late 2012, at the earliest, if at all, and therefore do not expect to have cash flow from operations until 2013, if at all. ILUVIEN has not been approved for marketing in the U.S. and may never receive such approval. As a result of these factors, we are uncertain when or if we will achieve profitability and, if so, whether we will be able to sustain it. As of December 31, 2011, we have accumulated a net deficit of $211.4 million. Our ability to achieve revenue and profitability is dependent on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and have our products manufactured and successfully marketed. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable even if we successfully commercialize our products. Failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $33.6 million in cash, cash equivalents, and investments. In October 2010, we obtained a $32.5 million senior secured credit facility (Credit Facility) to help fund our working capital requirements. The Credit Facility consisted of a $20.0 million revolving line of credit and a $12.5 million term loan. The lenders have advanced $6.25 million under the term loan. In May 2011, the Credit Facility was amended to increase the term loan to $17.25 million, of which the remaining $11.0 million would have been advanced following FDA approval of ILUVIEN, but no later than December 31, 2011. Due to the issuance of the second CRL by the FDA in November 2011 regarding our NDA for ILUVIEN, the remaining $11.0 million is no longer available to us. Additionally, we may only draw on the revolving line of credit against eligible U.S. domestic accounts receivable, which we would not expect to have prior to the launch of ILUVIEN in the U.S. Therefore, the revolving line of credit, which expires in April 2014, is not currently, and may never be, available to us. We believe that we have sufficient funds available to fund our operations through the projected commercialization of ILUVIEN in the EU countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization and the expected generation of revenue in late 2012, at the earliest. In the EU countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization, we plan to commercialize ILUVIEN, directly or with a partner. If we choose to commercialize ILUVIEN directly, we will need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to fund our operations beyond commercialization. Even if we raise additional capital, the commercialization of ILUVIEN, directly or with a partner, is dependent upon numerous factors and we cannot be sure that future sales of ILUVIEN will generate enough revenue to fund our operations. If ILUVIEN is not approved or does not generate sufficient revenue, we may adjust our commercial plans so that we can continue to operate with our existing cash resources or seek to raise additional financing. 27 Table of Contents We face heavy government regulation, and regulatory approval of ILUVIEN and our other product candidates from the FDA and from similar entities in other countries is uncertain. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal, state and local government authorities, including the FDA and similar entities in other countries. To obtain regulatory approval of a product, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the regulatory agencies that, among other things, the product is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition, we must show that the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where ILUVIEN is not approved will require us to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense incurred, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of preclinical and clinical tests that will be required for regulatory approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition for which the drug candidate is in development, the jurisdiction in which we are seeking approval and the regulations applicable to that particular drug candidate. Regulatory agencies, including those in the U.S., Canada, the EU and other countries where drugs are regulated, can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including that: • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective; • regulatory agencies may interpret data from preclinical and clinical testing in different ways from those which we do; • they may not approve of our manufacturing processes; • they may conclude that the drug candidate does not meet quality standards for stability, quality, purity and potency; and • they may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. The FDA may make requests or suggestions regarding conduct of our clinical trials, resulting in an increased risk of difficulties or delays in obtaining regulatory approval in the U.S. For example, the FDA may not approve of certain of our methods for analyzing our trial data, including how we evaluate the relationship between risk and benefit. Further, we may pursue approval of and market other product candidates, outside the U.S. and specifically in the EU and Canada. Regulatory agencies within these countries will require that we obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedures within these countries can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Additionally, the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. For all of these reasons, we may not obtain additional foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We have not yet received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction and any delay or failure by us to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain and would adversely affect the marketing of our products. 28 Table of Contents ILUVIEN utilizes FAc, a corticosteroid that has demonstrated undesirable side effects in the eye; therefore, the success of ILUVIEN will be dependent upon the achievement of an appropriate relationship between the benefits of its efficacy and the risks of its side-effect profile. The use of corticosteroids in the eye has been associated with undesirable side effects, including increased incidence of cataract formation and elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), which may increase the risk of glaucoma. We have 36 months of clinical data from our FAME Study, but the extent of ILUVIEN’s long-term side-effect profile beyond month 36 is not yet known. We have agreed with EU regulatory authorities to conduct a five-year post-authorization, open label registry study of the safety of ILUVIEN in patients with chronic DME. Although ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain, the FDA’s current position is that our FAME Study did not demonstrate that ILUVIEN has sufficient levels of efficacy to outweigh the risks associated with its side-effect profile. In the event the FDA maintains this conclusion, ILUVIEN may not receive regulatory approval from the FDA. Additionally if other regulatory bodies adopt a conclusion similar to the FDA’s we may not receive approval in any other jurisdiction. Even if we do receive additional regulatory approvals for ILUVIEN, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which ILUVIEN may be marketed, subsequently withdraw approval or take other actions against us or ILUVIEN that would be adverse to our business. Regulatory agencies generally approve products for particular indications. If any such regulatory agency approves ILUVIEN for a limited indication, the size of our potential market for ILUVIEN will be reduced. For example, our potential market for ILUVIEN in the U.S. would be reduced if the FDA limited the indications of use to patients diagnosed with only clinically significant DME as opposed to DME, or restricted its use to patients exhibiting IOP below a certain level or having an artificial lens at the time of treatment. ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain for the treatment of vision impairment associated with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies which may limit the use of ILUVIEN to a segment of the DME population. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. The marketing, distribution and manufacture of ILUVIEN in the EU, and if approved in the U.S., will be subject to regulation. We will need to comply with facility registration and product listing requirements of the FDA and similar entities in other countries and adhere to the FDA’s Quality System Regulations. Noncompliance with applicable FDA and similar entities’ requirements can result in warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of ILUVIEN, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of regulatory agencies to grant approvals, withdrawal of approvals by regulatory agencies or criminal prosecution. We would also need to maintain compliance with federal, state and foreign laws regarding sales incentives, referrals and other programs. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these products will depend, among other things, on their acceptance by retinal specialists, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the demonstration of its safety and efficacy, • its cost-effectiveness, • its potential advantages over other therapies, • the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers with respect to the product candidate, and • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities. 29 Table of Contents If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. If our product candidates are not accepted by retinal specialists, patients, third-party payers and other members of the medical community, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable. Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of ILUVIEN depends upon the continuation of our license from pSivida US, Inc. Our license rights to pSivida US, Inc.’s (pSivida) proprietary delivery device could revert to pSivida if we (i) fail twice to cure our breach of an obligation to make certain payments to pSivida following receipt of written notice thereof; (ii) fail to cure other breaches of material terms of our agreement with pSivida within 30 days after notice of such breaches or such longer period (up to 90 days) as may be reasonably necessary if the breach cannot be cured within such 30-day period; (iii) file for protection under the bankruptcy laws, make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, appoint or suffer appointment of a receiver or trustee over our property, file a petition under any bankruptcy or insolvency act or have any such petition filed against us and such proceeding remains undismissed or unstayed for a period of more than 60 days; or (iv) notify pSivida in writing of our decision to abandon our license with respect to a certain product using pSivida’s proprietary delivery device. If our agreement with pSivida were terminated, we would lose our rights to develop and commercialize ILUVIEN, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and future prospects. We will rely on a single manufacturer for ILUVIEN, a single manufacturer for the ILUVIEN applicator and a single active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturer for ILUVIEN’s active pharmaceutical ingredient. Our business would be seriously harmed if any of these third-parties are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available. We do not have, nor currently intend to have, in-house manufacturing capability and will depend completely on a single third-party manufacturer for the manufacture of the ILUVIEN insert (Alliance Medical Products, Inc. (Alliance)), a single third-party manufacturer for the manufacture of the ILUVIEN applicator (Flextronics International, Ltd. or an affiliate of Flextronics International, Ltd. (Flextronics)) and a single third-party manufacturer for the manufacture of ILUVIEN’s active pharmaceutical ingredient (FARMABIOS SpA./Byron Chemical Company Inc. (FARMABIOS)). Although we have long-term agreements for the manufacture of the ILUVIEN insert (with Alliance), the manufacture of the ILUVIEN applicator (with Flextronics) and for the supply of ILUVIEN’s active pharmaceutical ingredient (with FARMABIOS), if any of the third-party manufacturers breach their agreements or are unable or unwilling to perform for any reason, we may not be able to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers, enter into favorable agreements with them or get them approved by the applicable regulatory authorities, such as the FDA in the U.S., in a timely manner. Further, all of our manufacturers rely on additional third-parties for the manufacture of component parts. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of ILUVIEN inserts, the ILUVIEN applicator or the active pharmaceutical ingredient in a timely manner from these third-parties could delay commercial production of, and impact our ability to fulfill demand for, ILUVIEN. Materials necessary to manufacture ILUVIEN and our other product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We will rely on our manufacturers to purchase materials from third-party suppliers necessary to produce ILUVIEN and our other product candidates for our clinical trials and expected commercial distribution. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of ILUVIEN outside the seven EU countries in which it has been recommended for marketing authorization and our other product candidates could be delayed, significantly affecting our ability to develop ILUVIEN and our other product candidates. If we or our manufacturers are unable to purchase these materials in the EU for ILUVIEN, or elsewhere if and when applicable regulatory approval has been obtained for ILUVIEN and our other product candidates, the commercial launch of ILUVIEN and our other product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of ILUVIEN and our other product candidates. Moreover, although we have finalized agreements for the commercial production of the ILUVIEN insert, the commercial production of the ILUVIEN applicator, and the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient in ILUVIEN, the suppliers may be unable or choose not to supply us in a timely manner or in the minimum guaranteed quantities. If we are unable to obtain these supplies, our ability to manufacture ILUVIEN for commercial sale would be delayed, significantly impacting our ability to generate revenue from the sale of ILUVIEN. 30 Table of Contents The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical product candidates such as ILUVIEN are subject to the requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to satisfy these requirements, our product development and commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical product candidates such as ILUVIEN and our future product candidates are regulated by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s cGMP and comparable requirements of foreign regulatory agencies. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under these cGMP regulations which are both capable of manufacturing ILUVIEN and willing to do so. Failure by us or our third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations, requirements, or guidelines could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In December 2010, we received a CRL from the FDA in which the FDA indicated that it had observed deficiencies in cGMP during its facility inspections of two of our third-party manufacturers, which were completed in August and September of 2010, and that all facilities and controls would need to comply with cGMP. Both of these manufacturers received confirmation from the FDA in March 2011 that the deficiencies have been resolved and their respective facility facilities are acceptable. However, if our manufacturers fail to maintain compliance, the production of ILUVIEN could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. Any significant delays in the manufacture of ILUVIEN could materially harm our business and prospects. Changes in the manufacturing process or procedure, including a change in the location where the product is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, will require prior FDA review and/or approval of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations. There are comparable foreign requirements as well. This review may be costly and time consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. If we elect to manufacture products in our own facility or at the facility of another third-party, we would need to ensure that the new facility and the manufacturing process are in substantial compliance with cGMP and comparable foreign regulations. The new facility will also be subject to pre-approval inspection. In addition, we have to demonstrate that the product made at the new facility is equivalent to the product made at the former facility by physical and chemical methods, which are costly and time consuming. It is also possible that the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency may require clinical testing as a way to prove equivalency, which would result in additional costs and delay. Furthermore, in order to obtain approval of our product candidates by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and on the finished product in the packaging that we propose for commercial sales. This includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. In addition, we will be required to consistently produce in commercial quantities and of specified quality in a reproducible manner and document our ability to do so. This requirement is referred to as process validation. With respect to ILUVIEN, although we have validated the manufacturing process at smaller scale batches, some of the steps in the manufacturing processes will need to be revalidated when we begin to manufacture larger commercial scale batches, including in connection with our anticipated commercial launch in the EU. If the required testing or process validation is delayed or produces unfavorable results, we may have to launch the product using smaller scale batches, which may impact our ability to fulfill demand for the product. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements, for the manufacture, packaging, or testing of products at any time. If we are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could severely harm our business. Preclinical studies and clinical trials required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates are time consuming and expensive and together take several years to complete. The completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: • our inability to manufacture or obtain from third-parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical studies and clinical trials; • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; and • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines. If we fail to successfully complete our clinical trials for any of our product candidates, we may not receive the regulatory approvals needed to market those product candidates. Therefore, any failure or delay in commencing or completing these clinical trials would harm our business materially. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a trial presents unacceptable health risks; and • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other studies with respect to any of our product candidates beyond those that we initially contemplated, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other studies or if the results of these trials or studies are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for those product candidates, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval or we may obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. Significant clinical trial delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or potential products. If any of this occurs, our business will be materially harmed. 32 Table of Contents In order to establish our sales and marketing infrastructure in the EU or the U.S., we will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of December 31, 2011, we had 21 employees. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we will need to expand the size of our employee base for managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees. Also, our management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN and our other product candidates and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth and related costs. We may not be able to effectively manage a rapid pace of growth and timely implement improvements to our management infrastructure and control systems. ILUVIEN and our other potential products may not be commercially viable if we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for these products from governments, private insurers, the Medicare program and other third-party payers. The market for our products may also be limited by the indications for which their use may be reimbursed or the frequency at which they may be administered. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affect the market for products such as ILUVIEN and others that we may develop. These third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain, as well as many other foreign countries, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the EU, each country has a different reviewing body that evaluates reimbursement dossiers submitted by marketing authorization holders of new drugs and then makes recommendations as to whether or not the drug should be reimbursed. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products, including ILUVIEN, to other available therapies. In the U.S., in the event that ILUVIEN is approved, we will need to obtain approvals for payment for ILUVIEN from private insurers, including managed care organizations, and from the Medicare program. In recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the Medicare program. Comprehensive reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, Medicare reimbursement. These reforms could significantly reduce payments from Medicare and Medicaid over the next ten years. Reforms or other changes to these payment systems, including modifications to the conditions on qualification for payment, bundling of payments or the imposition of enrollment limitations on new providers, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from Medicare, private insurers and other third-party payers for ILUVIEN and our other potential products. Some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates for ILUVIEN and our other potential products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. 33 Table of Contents We expect that private insurers will consider the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of ILUVIEN in determining whether to approve reimbursement for ILUVIEN and at what level. Obtaining these approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not receive approval for reimbursement of ILUVIEN from private insurers on a timely or satisfactory basis. Although drugs that are not self-administered are covered by Medicare, the Medicare program has taken the position that it can decide not to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are not “reasonable and necessary” for Medicare beneficiaries. Limitations on coverage could also be imposed at the local Medicare carrier level or by fiscal intermediaries. Our business could be materially adversely affected if the Medicare program, local Medicare carriers or fiscal intermediaries were to make such a determination and deny or limit the reimbursement of ILUVIEN. Our business also could be adversely affected if retinal specialists are not reimbursed by Medicare for the cost of the procedure in which they administer ILUVIEN on a basis satisfactory to the administering retinal specialists. If the local contractors that administer the Medicare program are slow to reimburse retinal specialists for ILUVIEN, the retinal specialists may pay us more slowly, which would adversely affect our working capital requirements. Our business could also be adversely affected if governments, private insurers, the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payers limit the indications for which ILUVIEN will be reimbursed to a smaller set than we believe it is effective in treating or establish a limitation on the frequency with which ILUVIEN may be administered that is less often than we believe would be effective. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of ILUVIEN and our future products due to the potential healthcare reforms discussed above, as well as the trend toward programs aimed at reducing health care costs, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals, and the economic health of companies. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive and the commercial success of ILUVIEN will depend on several factors, including, but not limited to, its efficacy and side effect profile, authorization for reimbursement by foreign regulatory bodies, private insurers and Medicare, acceptance of pricing, the development of our sales and marketing organization, an adequate payment to physicians for the insertion procedure (based on a cost assigned by the American Medical Association to the procedure, also known as a CPT code) and our ability to differentiate ILUVIEN from our competitors’ products. We will face competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide with respect to ILUVIEN and to any products that we may develop or commercialize in the future. Our competitors may develop products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that we are developing. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. The active pharmaceutical ingredient in ILUVIEN is FAc, which is not protected by currently valid patents. As a result, our competitors could develop an alternative formulation or delivery mechanisms to treat diseases of the eye with FAc. We do not have the right to develop and sell pSivida’s proprietary delivery device for indications for diseases outside of the eye or for the treatment of uveitis. Further, our agreement with pSivida permits pSivida to grant to any other party the right to use its intellectual property (i) to treat DME through an incision smaller than that required for a 25-gauge needle, unless using a corticosteroid delivered to the back of the eye, (ii) to deliver any compound outside the back of the eye unless it is to treat DME through an incision required for a 25-gauge or larger needle, or (iii) to deliver non-corticosteroids to the back of the eye, unless it is to treat DME through an incision required for a 25-gauge or larger needle. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we have. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated by our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances made in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these fields. We currently do not have any collaboration agreements with third-parties. We expect to depend on collaborations to develop and commercialize our products. If we are unable to identify or enter into an agreement with any material third-party collaborator, if our collaborations with any such third-party are not scientifically or commercially successful or if our agreement with any such third-party is terminated or allowed to expire, we could be adversely affected financially or our business reputation could be harmed. 34 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes entering into collaborations with corporate and academic collaborators for the research, development and commercialization of additional product candidates. We currently do not have any collaboration agreements with third-parties. Areas in which we anticipate potentially entering into third-party collaboration arrangements include joint sales and marketing arrangements for sales and marketing of ILUVIEN in the EU and elsewhere outside of North America, and future product development arrangements. If we are unable to identify or enter into an agreement with any material third-party collaborator we could be adversely affected financially or our business reputation could be harmed. Any arrangements we do enter into may not be scientifically or commercially successful. The termination of any of these future arrangements might adversely affect our ability to develop, commercialize and market our products. The success of our future collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our collaborators will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. We expect that the risks which we face in connection with these future collaborations will include the following: • our collaboration agreements are expected to be for fixed terms and subject to termination under various circumstances, including, in many cases, on short notice without cause; • we expect to be required in our collaboration agreements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the collaboration. These agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in cooperation with third-parties; • our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with our products which are the subject of their collaboration with us; and • our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. In recent years there have been a significant number of mergers and consolidations in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, some of which have resulted in the participant companies reevaluating and shifting the focus of their business following the completion of these transactions. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if any of our future collaborators decreases or fails to increase spending relating to such products. Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third-parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. With respect to our future collaborations, any such termination or expiration could adversely affect us financially as well as harm our business reputation. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our portfolio of products. A key element of our strategy is to commercialize a portfolio of new ophthalmic drugs in addition to ILUVIEN. We are seeking to do so through our internal research programs and through licensing or otherwise acquiring the rights to potential new drugs and drug targets for the treatment of ophthalmic disease. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including: • the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates; or • potential product candidates may on further study be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective drugs. 35 Table of Contents We may be unable to license or acquire suitable product candidates or products from third-parties for a number of reasons. In particular, the licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is a competitive area. Several more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products in the ophthalmic field. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable product candidates include the following: • we may be unable to license or acquire the relevant technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from the product; • companies that perceive us to be their competitors may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us; or • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within our areas of expertise. Additionally, it may take greater human and financial resources to develop suitable potential product candidates through internal research programs or by obtaining rights than we will possess, thereby limiting our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates through internal research programs or by obtaining rights to novel therapeutics from third-parties, our business will suffer. We may acquire additional businesses or form strategic alliances in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions or alliances. We may acquire additional businesses or products, form strategic alliances or create joint ventures with third-parties that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. If we acquire businesses with promising markets or technologies, we may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring such businesses if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture. We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize value from expected synergies. We cannot assure that, following an acquisition, we will achieve the revenues or specific net income that justifies the acquisition. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims, which is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of drugs and related products. If the use of one or more of our products harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. We have primary product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials for a $5.0 million general aggregate limit and excess product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials for an additional $5.0 million general aggregate limit. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of the products that we may develop. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities. If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product development and commercialization efforts. In addition, our business is exposed to the risk of product liability claims related to our sale and distribution of our over-the-counter dry eye product prior to its acquisition by Bausch & Lomb Incorporated in July 2007. Our primary product liability insurance and excess product liability insurance policies cover product liability claims related to the product. To the extent this insurance is insufficient to cover any product related claims we may be exposed to significant liabilities which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents If we lose key management personnel, or if we fail to recruit additional highly skilled personnel, it will impair our ability to identify, develop and commercialize product candidates. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management team, including C. Daniel Myers, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Richard Eiswirth, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Susan Caballa, our Senior Vice President of Regulatory Affairs, Kenneth Green, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, and Dave Holland, our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. These executives have significant ophthalmic, regulatory industry, sales and marketing, operational, and/or corporate finance experience. The loss of any such executives or any other principal member of our management team would impair our ability to identify, develop and market new products. In addition, our growth will require us to hire a significant number of qualified technical, commercial and administrative personnel. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we cannot continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow. If our contract research organizations (CROs), third-party vendors and investigators do not successfully carry out their duties or if we lose our relationships with them, our development efforts with respect to ILUVIEN or any of our other product candidates could be delayed. We are dependent on CROs, third-party vendors and investigators for preclinical testing and clinical trials related to our discovery and development efforts with respect to our product candidates and we will likely continue to depend on them to assist in our future discovery and development efforts. These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our development programs with respect to our product candidates or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we contract for execution of clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their failure to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in identifying another comparable provider and contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to cGLP and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. Our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, including ILUVIEN in the EU, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval pharmacovigilance, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements, review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturer or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; 37 Table of Contents • voluntary or mandatory recall; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizure; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in additional foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products abroad. In February 2012, we received a positive outcome from the Decentralized Procedure with the issuance of a FAR from the MHRA indicating that ILUVIEN is approvable for the treatment of vision impairment associated with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain. However, we intend to continue to pursue additional market authorizations for ILUVIEN and other product candidates internationally in additional jurisdictions. In order to market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we will be required to obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval or approval in the seven EU countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization. Additionally, the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. For all of these reasons, we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business materially. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit their marketability. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. Possible side effects of ILUVIEN include, but are not limited to, extensive blurred vision, cataracts, eye irritation, eye pain, increased IOP, which may increase the risk of glaucoma, ocular discomfort, reduced visual acuity, visual disturbance, endophthalmitis, or long-standing vitreous floaters. In addition, if following marketing approval in a jurisdiction, we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, we could face one or more of the following consequences: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; 38 Table of Contents • we may be required to change the way that the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Other Legal Matters If we or our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property incorporated into our products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success will depend in large part on our ability or the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain protection in the U.S. and other countries for the intellectual property incorporated into our products. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We or our licensors may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain (including making periodic filings and payments) and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Under our license with pSivida, pSivida controls the filing, prosecution and maintenance of all patents. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute or continue to prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents are issued in respect of these patent applications, we or our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against entities that are infringing upon these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we ordinarily would. Without protection for the intellectual property that we own or license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Moreover, FAc is an off-patent active ingredient that is commercially available in several forms including the extended release ocular implant Retisert. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our products. In addition, our patents and our licensors’ patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates. Our products or potential products may infringe upon other parties’ intellectual property rights that are protected by patents or patent applications. Third-parties may now or in the future own or control these patents and patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. These third-parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses or divert substantial employee resources from our business and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages or prevent us from developing one or more product candidates. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. 39 Table of Contents Several issued and pending U.S. patents claiming methods and devices for the treatment of eye diseases, including through the use of steroids, implants and injections into the eye, purport to cover aspects of ILUVIEN. For example, one of our potential competitors holds issued and pending U.S. patents and a pending European patent application with claims covering injecting an ocular implant into a patient’s eye similar to the ILUVIEN applicator. There is also an issued U.S. patent with claims covering implanting a steroidal anti-inflammatory agent to treat an inflammation-mediated condition of the eye. If these or any other patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be valid and to cover aspects of ILUVIEN, then the owners of such patents would be able to block our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN unless and until we obtain a license under such patents (which license might require us to pay royalties or grant a cross-license to one or more patents that we own), until such patents expire or unless we are able to redesign our product to avoid any such valid patents. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third-party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding, regardless of its merit, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may, regardless of their merit, also absorb significant management time and employee resources. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third-parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Our licenses are material to our business, and we expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. We hold a license from pSivida under intellectual property relating to ILUVIEN. This license imposes various commercialization, milestone payment, profit sharing, insurance and other obligations on us. We also hold a license from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. under patents relating to ILUVIEN. This license imposes a milestone payment and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the applicable license, in which event we would not be able to market products, such as ILUVIEN, that may be covered by such license. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes, trade secrets and know-how. Any involuntary disclosure or misappropriation by third-parties of our confidential or proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. We seek to protect confidential or proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third-parties. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third-parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. These agreements may be terminated or breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such termination or breach. Furthermore, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that any of our staff were previously employed by other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, those employers may allege violations of trade secrets and other similar claims in relation to their drug development activities for us. 40 Table of Contents If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our products are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. The strength of our patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. In addition to the rights we have licensed from pSivida relating to our product candidates, we rely upon intellectual property we own relating to our products, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. As of December 31, 2011, we owned one pending non-provisional U.S. utility patent application, one European patent application, one issued U.S. design patent and corresponding applications in a number of other jurisdictions, relating to our applicator for ILUVIEN. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be too narrow to prevent third-parties from developing or designing around these patents. As of December 31, 2011, the patent rights relating to ILUVIEN licensed to us from pSivida include three U.S. patents that expire between March 2019 and April 2020, one European patent expiring in April of 2021, and counterpart filings to these patents in a number of other jurisdictions. No patent term extension will be available for any of these U.S. patents, European patent or any of our licensed U.S. or European pending patent applications. After these patents expire in April 2020 in the U.S. and April of 2021 in Europe, we will not be able to block others from marketing FAc in an insert similar to ILUVIEN in the U.S. Moreover, it is possible that a third-party could successfully challenge the scope (i.e., whether a patent is infringed), validity and enforceability of our licensed patents prior to patent expiration and obtain approval to market a competitive product. Further, the patent applications that we license or have filed may fail to result in issued patents. Some claims in pending patent applications filed or licensed by us have been rejected by patent examiners. These claims may need to be amended. Even after amendment, a patent may not be permitted to issue. Further, the existing or future patents to which we have rights based on our agreement with pSivida may be too narrow to prevent third-parties from developing or designing around these patents. Additionally, we may lose our rights to the patents and patent applications we license in the event of a breach or termination of the license agreement. Manufacturers may also seek to obtain approval to sell a generic version of ILUVIEN prior to the expiration of the relevant licensed patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents we license with respect to ILUVIEN or the patents we pursue related to another product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN and our other product candidates. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials, the period of time during which we could market ILUVIEN and our other product candidates under patent protection would be reduced. We rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect certain proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our development processes with respect to ILUVIEN and our other product candidates that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third-parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the U.S. and abroad. If we are unable to protect or defend the intellectual property related to our technologies, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our discovery, development and commercialization efforts with respect to ILUVIEN and our other product candidates. Our commercial success depends in part on avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third-parties. Third-parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, at least several issued and pending U.S. patents claiming methods and devices for the treatment of eye diseases, including through the use of steroids, implants and injections into the eye, purport to cover aspects of ILUVIEN. 41 Table of Contents Although we are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement related to ILUVIEN, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may in the future allege that our activities infringe their patents or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We may not have identified all the patents, patent applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product, by preventing the patentability of one or more aspects of our products or those of our licensors or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect our ability to market our product. We cannot predict whether we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any inability to obtain such a license under the applicable patents on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN or other products until such patents expire. In addition, third-parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our product candidates or technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third-parties or pay royalties, or we may be enjoined from further developing or commercializing our product candidates and technologies. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third-parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain future licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we may be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 42 Table of Contents Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. We face a risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our product candidates. We believe that we may be at a greater risk of product liability claims relative to other pharmaceutical companies because our products are inserted into the eye, and it is possible that we may be held liable for eye injuries of patients who receive our product. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forego further commercialization of one or more of our products. Although we maintain primary product liability insurance and excess product liability insurance that cover our clinical trials, our aggregate coverage limit under these insurance policies is $10.0 million, and while we believe this amount of insurance is sufficient to cover our product liability exposure, these limits may not be high enough to fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims, which could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products. Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. In particular, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, and a related reconciliation bill were signed into law. This legislation changes the current system of healthcare insurance and benefits intended to broaden coverage and control costs. The law also contains provisions that will affect companies in the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare related industries by imposing additional costs and changes to business practices. Provisions affecting pharmaceutical companies include the following: • Mandatory rebates for drugs sold into the Medicaid program have been increased, and the rebate requirement has been extended to drugs used in risk-based Medicaid managed care plans. • The 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Services Act has been extended to require mandatory discounts for drug products sold to certain critical access hospitals, cancer hospitals and other covered entities. • Pharmaceutical companies are required to offer discounts on brand-name drugs to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, commonly referred to as the “Donut Hole.” • Pharmaceutical companies are required to pay an annual non-tax deductible fee to the federal government based on each company’s market share of prior year total sales of branded products to certain federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense. The aggregated industry-wide fee is expected to total $28 billion through 2019, of which $2.5 billion will be payable in 2011. Since we expect our branded pharmaceutical sales to constitute a small portion of the total federal health program pharmaceutical market, we do not expect this annual assessment to have a material impact on our financial condition. • The new law provides that biologic products may receive 12 years of market exclusivity, with a possible six-month extension for pediatric products. After this exclusivity ends, generic manufacturers will be permitted to enter the market, which is likely to reduce the pricing for such products and could affect the company’s profitability. In addition, generic manufacturers will be permitted to challenge one or more of the patents for a branded drug after a product is marketed for four years. The full effects of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation cannot be known until the new law is implemented through regulations or guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state healthcare agencies. The financial impact of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation over the next few years will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to the policies reflected in implementing regulations and guidance and changes in sales volumes for products affected by the new system of rebates, discounts and fees. If ILUVIEN is approved by the FDA, the legislation may also have a positive impact on our future net sales, if any, by increasing the aggregate number of persons with healthcare coverage in the U.S., but such increases are unlikely to be realized until approximately 2014, at the earliest. 43 Table of Contents In addition, in September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted giving the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to ensure compliance with post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of approved products. Further, in some foreign countries, including the EU and Canada, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. Our business could be materially harmed if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. Moreover, we cannot predict what healthcare reform initiatives may be adopted in the future. Further federal and state legislative and regulatory developments are likely, and we expect ongoing initiatives in the U.S. to increase pressure on drug pricing. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenues from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain regulatory approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop drug candidates. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical and biological materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations in both the U.S. and Canada govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Although we believe that our procedures for use, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards may be limited. At December 31, 2011, we had U.S. federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carry-forwards of approximately $120.4 million and $103.8 million, respectively, which expire at various dates beginning in 2020 through 2031. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code limits the annual utilization of NOL carry-forwards and tax credit carry-forwards following an ownership change in our company. We periodically evaluate our NOL carry-forwards and whether certain changes in ownership, including our IPO, have occurred that would limit our ability to utilize a portion of our NOL carry-forwards. If it is determined that significant ownership changes have occurred since we generated these NOL carry-forwards, we may be subject to annual limitations on the use of these NOL carry-forwards under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 382 (or comparable provisions of state law). We have not performed a formal analysis of our NOLS in connection with IRC Section 382. 44 Table of Contents We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, has imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have substantially increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain our existing director and officer liability insurance or to obtain similar coverage from an alternative provider. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Section 404), we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require us to continue to incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and cash flows could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We expect our operating results and cash flows to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including, but not limited to: • the commercial success of our product candidates; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval of ILUVIEN in additional jurisdictions; • the emergence of products that compete with our product candidates; • the status of our preclinical and clinical development programs; • variations in the level of expenses related to our existing product candidates or preclinical and clinical development programs; • execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments received or made under those arrangements; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuits to which we may become a party; and • regulatory developments affecting our product candidates or those of our competitors. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and cash flows may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. 45 Table of Contents We may need additional financing in the event that we do not receive regulatory approval for ILUVIEN in the U.S. or the approval is delayed or, if approved in the U.S., the future sales of ILUVIEN in the U.S. and EU do not generate sufficient revenues to fund our operations. This financing may be difficult to obtain and may restrict our operations. Prior to our IPO, we funded our operations through the private placement of common stock, preferred stock, warrants and convertible debt, as well as by the sale of certain assets of the non-prescription business in which we were previously engaged. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $33.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments. In October 2010, we obtained a $32.5 million senior secured credit facility (Credit Facility) to help fund our working capital requirements. The Credit Facility consisted of a $20.0 million revolving line of credit and a $12.5 million term loan. The lenders have advanced $6.25 million under the term loan. In May 2011, the Credit Facility was amended to increase the term loan to $17.25 million, of which the remaining $11.0 million would have been advanced following FDA approval of ILUVIEN, but no later than December 31, 2011. Due to the issuance of the second CRL by the FDA in November 2011 regarding our NDA for ILUVIEN, the remaining $11.0 million is no longer available to us. Additionally, we may only draw on the revolving line of credit against eligible U.S. domestic accounts receivable, which we would not expect to have prior to the launch of ILUVIEN in the U.S. Therefore, the revolving line of credit, which expires in April 2014, is not currently, and may never be, available to us. On February 6, 2012, we received a letter from the lenders stating that they reserve the right to assert that recent events, including the issuance of the second CRL and a decrease in the market value of our public equity securities, may represent a material impairment of the value of the collateral under the loan agreements. To date, the lenders have not made such an assertion, and in our opinion a material impairment of the value of the collateral has not occurred. We believe that we have sufficient funds available to fund our operations through the projected commercialization of ILUVIEN in the EU countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization and the expected generation of revenue in late 2012, at the earliest, if at all, and therefore do not expect to have cash flow from operations until 2013, if at all. In the EU countries in which ILUVIEN has been recommended for marketing authorization, we plan to commercialize ILUVIEN, directly or with a partner. If we choose to commercialize ILUVIEN directly, we will need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to fund our operations beyond commercialization. Even if we raise additional capital, the commercialization of ILUVIEN, directly or with a partner, is dependent upon numerous factors and we cannot be sure that future sales of ILUVIEN will generate enough revenue to fund our operations beyond its initial commercialization. Due to the uncertainty around the commercial launch of ILUVIEN, management cannot be certain that we will not need additional funds for its commercialization. If ILUVIEN is not approved or does not generate sufficient revenue, we may adjust our commercial plans so that we can continue to operate with our existing cash resources or seek to raise additional financing. In the event additional financing is needed or advisable, we may seek to fund our operations through the sale of equity securities, strategic collaboration agreements and additional debt financing. We cannot be sure that additional financing from any of these sources will be available when needed or that, if available, the additional financing will be obtained on terms favorable to us or our stockholders especially in light of the current difficult financial environment. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to existing stockholders would likely result and the terms of any new equity securities may have a preference over our common stock. If we attempt to raise additional funds through strategic collaboration agreements and additional debt financing, we may not be successful in obtaining collaboration agreements, or in receiving milestone or royalty payments under those agreements, or the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to commercialize our product candidates or operate our business. For example, under the Credit Facility, we are subject to a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including required financial reporting, limitations on our cash balances, limitations on the disposition of assets, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt, and other requirements. To secure the performance of our obligations under the Credit Facility, we pledged all of our assets, including our intellectual property to the lenders. Our failure to comply with the covenants under the Credit Facility could result in an event of default, the acceleration of our debt and the loss of our assets. Any declaration of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. We completed our IPO in April 2010 at a price of $11.00 per share. Subsequently, our common stock has traded as low as $1.09 per share. The realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors or other unforeseen risks could have a dramatic and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: 46 Table of Contents • failure of ILUVIEN to be approved in any jurisdiction; • failure to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in the EU; • failure of ILUVIEN or any of our other product candidates, to achieve commercial success; • results from our clinical trial programs; • FDA or international regulatory actions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced product candidates on a timely basis; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, regulatory approvals, clinical milestones, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • third-party coverage and reimbursement policies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • our ability to meet our repayment and other obligations under our credit facility; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • any major change in our board or management; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials, the submission of regulatory filings, the notification of the results of regulatory filings and the anticipated commercial launch of our product candidates. Also, from time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against these companies. This litigation, if brought against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 47 Table of Contents Certain of our existing stockholders have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval and may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, our executive officers, key employees and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 71.6% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, and this concentration of voting power may have the effect of delaying or impeding actions that could be beneficial to you, including actions that may be supported by our board of directors. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on your investment will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. Significant sales of our common stock could depress or reduce the market price of our common stock, or cause our shares of common stock to trade below the prices at which they would otherwise trade, or impede our ability to raise future capital. A small number of institutional investors and private equity funds hold a significant number of shares of our common stock. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation of such sales, could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our common stock. Additionally, a small number of early investors in our company have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. In addition to our outstanding common stock, as of December 31, 2011, there were a total of 2,607,446 shares of common stock that we have registered and that we are obligated to issue upon the exercise of currently outstanding options granted under our equity incentive plans. Upon the exercise of these options, in accordance with their respective terms, these shares may be resold freely, subject to restrictions imposed on our affiliates under the SEC’s Rule 144. If significant sales of these shares occur in short periods of time, these sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any reduction in the trading price of our common stock could impede our ability to raise capital on attractive terms. Actual or perceived significant sales of our common stock could depress or reduce the market price of our common stock, cause our shares of common stock to trade below the prices at which they would otherwise trade or impede our ability to raise future capital. Future sales and issuances of our equity securities or rights to purchase our equity securities, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, would result in dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities; our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to existing stockholders. 48 Table of Contents Pursuant to our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, our board of directors is authorized to grant stock options to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan increases each year by an amount equal to the lesser of 4% of all shares of our capital stock outstanding as of January 1st of each year, 2,000,000 shares, or such lesser number as determined by our board of directors. On January 1, 2012, an additional 1,257,095 shares became available for future issuance under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan in accordance with the annual increase. In addition, we have reserved 494,422 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares eligible for purchase increases as of January 1st of each year in an amount equal to the shares purchased under the plan in the preceding year. As such, on January 1, 2012, an additional 21,910 shares became available for future issuance under our 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and in Delaware law could prevent or delay acquisition bids for us that you might consider favorable and could entrench current management. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may deter, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would allow holders of less than a majority of our outstanding common stock to elect some directors; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 49 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 