Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Our Business We have had no operating history as a biopharmaceutical company. As a company, we have no operating history in our contemplated biopharmaceutical business and, to date, our revenues have been insignificant. Accordingly, it may be difficult to evaluate our business prospects. Moreover, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by an early-stage company and in highly regulated and competitive markets, such as the biopharmaceutical market, where regulatory approval and market acceptance of our products are uncertain. We depend on the implementation of our business plan, including our ability to make future investments. There can be no assurance that our efforts will ultimately be successful or result in revenues or profits. We have not yet commercialized any products or technologies, and we may never become profitable. We have not yet commercialized any products or technologies, and we may never be able to do so. We do not know when or if we will complete any of our product development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates (i.e. , potential products) incorporating our technologies, or successfully commercialize any approved products. Even if we are successful in developing products that are approved for marketing, we will not be successful unless these products gain market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance of these products will depend on a number of factors, including: · the timing of regulatory approvals in the countries, and for the uses, we seek; · the competitive environment; · the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products; · the adequacy and success of distribution, sales and marketing efforts; and · the pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors, such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators. Physicians, patients, thirty-party payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend any of our products or products incorporating our technologies. As a result, we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or the time required to achieve profitability, if at all. Even if we successfully develop one or more products that incorporate our technologies, we may not become profitable. Our product candidates are at an early stage of product development and may never be commercialized. All of our product candidates are at early stages of product development and may never be commercialized. Initially, we plan to develop product candidates through studies, testing and clinical lead product candidate selection, and then to license them to other companies. The progress and results of any future pre-clinical testing or future clinical trials are uncertain, and the failure of our product candidates to receive regulatory approvals will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition to the extent we are unable to commercialize any products. None of our product candidates has received regulatory approval for commercial sale. In addition, all of our product candidates are in the early stages of development, and we face the risks of failure inherent in developing therapeutic proteins based on new technologies. Our product candidates are not expected to be commercially available for several years, if at all. Although our current plan is to file for regulatory approval of our first human clinical trial of CTP-modified hGH during 2009, our inability to achieve intermediate milestones may negatively impact the expected time period. 17 In addition, our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the FDA and international regulatory authorities for commercial use. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have full discretion over this approval process. We will need to conduct significant additional research, involving testing in animals and in humans, before we can file applications for product approval. Typically, in the pharmaceutical industry there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in pre-clinical testing and clinical trials. Also, satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. For example, a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials and in interim analyses. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon additional government regulation, including any changes in FDA policy, during the process of product development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. In order to receive FDA approval or approval from foreign regulatory authorities to market a product candidate or to distribute our products, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical testing and through human clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for the treatment of a specific condition. We do not know when, if ever, any human clinical trials will begin with respect to our product candidates. We might be unable to develop product candidates that will achieve commercial success in a timely and cost-effective manner, or ever. Even if regulatory authorities approve our product candidates, they may not be commercially successful. Our product candidates may not be commercially successful because physicians, government agencies and other third-party payors may not accept them. Third parties may develop superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing our products. We also expect that most of our product candidates will be very expensive, if approved. Patient acceptance of and demand for any product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval or license will depend largely on many factors, including but not limited to the extent, if any, of reimbursement of therapeutic protein and treatment costs by government agencies and other third-party payors, pricing, the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution efforts, the safety and effectiveness of alternative products, and the prevalence and severity of side effects associated with our products. If physicians, government agencies and other third-party payors do not accept our products, we will not be able to generate significant revenue. It is highly likely that we will need to raise additional capital to meet our business requirements in the future and such capital raising may be costly or difficult to obtain and could dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests. Our income from operations is unlikely to be sufficient to achieve our business plan. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to meet various objectives including, but not limited to: · pursuing growth opportunities, including more rapid expansion; · acquiring complementary businesses; · making capital improvements to improve our infrastructure; · hiring qualified management and key employees; · research and development of new products; · responding to competitive pressures; · complying with regulatory requirements such as licensing and registration; and · maintaining compliance with applicable laws. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or equity backed securities may dilute current stockholders’ ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. The terms of those securities issued by us in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. 18 Furthermore, any additional debt or equity financing that we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain required additional capital, we may have to curtail our growth plans or cut back on existing business and, further, we may not be able to continue operating if we do not generate sufficient revenues from operations needed to stay in business. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. If we fail to obtain necessary funds for our operations, we will be unable to maintain and improve our patented technology and we will be unable to develop and commercialize our products and technologies. Our operations are currently funded primarily through the proceeds from the private offering of our securities in connection with the merger and other private placements. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and financing arrangements should be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements for approximately 24 months, although changes in our business, whether or not initiated by us, may affect the rate at which we deplete our cash and cash equivalents. Our present and future capital requirements depend on many factors, including: · the level of research and development investment required to develop our product candidates, and maintain and improve our patented technology position; · the costs of obtaining or manufacturing therapeutic proteins for research and development and at commercial scale; · the results of preclinical and clinical testing, which can be unpredictable in therapeutic protein development; · changes in product candidate development plans needed to address any difficulties that may arise in manufacturing, preclinical activities, clinical studies or commercialization; · our ability and willingness to enter into new agreements with strategic partners, and the terms of these agreements; · our success rate in preclinical and clinical efforts associated with milestones and royalties; · the costs of investigating patents that might block us from developing potential product candidates; · the costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending, and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and · our need or decision to acquire or license complementary technologies or new therapeutic protein targets. We depend on key members of our management and advisory team and will need to add and retain additional leading experts. 19 We are highly dependent on our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. If we fail to retain our Chief Executive Officer, Abraham (Avri) Havron, or our President, Shai Novik, or any other key management and technical personnel, this could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. Our success is also dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly trained technical, marketing, sales and management personnel, among others, to produce our product candidates and, if our product candidates are produced, to market our products and to continue to produce enhanced releases of our products. We presently do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel required for the development, maintenance and expansion of our activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain additional qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Under current United States and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce employees’ covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with our key employees. These agreements prohibit our key employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current United States and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. If we cannot enforce our non-compete agreements with our employees, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to capitalize on our proprietary information. We do not currently have sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and may be unable to effectively sell, market and distribute our product candidates in the future, and the failure to do so will have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to successfully commercialize any of our product candidates. We currently have only limited sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. In order to successfully commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either internally develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we do not develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities, we will be unable to market any of our product candidates directly. To promote any of our potential products through third parties, we will have to locate acceptable third parties for these functions and enter into agreements with them on acceptable terms and we may not be able to do so. In addition, any third-party arrangements we are able to enter into may result in lower revenues than we could achieve by directly marketing and selling our potential products. We may suffer losses from product liability claims if our product candidates cause harm to patients. Any of our product candidates could cause adverse events, such as immunologic or allergic reactions. These reactions may not be observed in clinical trials, but may nonetheless occur after commercialization. If any of these reactions occur, they may render our product candidates ineffective or harmful in some patients and our sales would suffer, adversely affecting our financial condition. In addition, potential adverse events caused by our product candidates could lead to product liability lawsuits. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to avoid product liability claims. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is generally expensive, if available at all. We do not currently have any product liability insurance because we are not yet conducting trials on humans. When we begin human trials, we will endeavor to obtain sufficient product liability insurance. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may cause us to incur substantial liabilities and, as a result, our business may not succeed. 20 Our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements even if they receive marketing approval, and if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose these approvals, and the sales of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or the conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, which could negatively impact us or our collaboration partners by reducing revenues or increasing expenses, and cause the approved product candidate not to be commercially viable. In addition, as clinical experience with a drug expands after approval, typically because it is used by a greater number and more diverse group of patients after approval than during clinical trials, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials or other studies. Any adverse effects observed after the approval and marketing of a product candidate could result in limitations on the use of or withdrawal of any approved products from the marketplace. Absence of long-term safety data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions or other setbacks, including the following: · Restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; · Warning letters; · Civil or criminal penalties, fines and/or injunctions; · Product seizures or detentions; · Import or export bans or restrictions; · Voluntary or mandatory product recalls and related publicity requirements; · Suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; · Total or partial suspension of production, and · Refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. If we or our collaborators are slow to adapt, or are unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, marketing approval for our product candidates may be lost or cease to be achievable, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement and, as a result, we may suffer delays or suspensions in future trials which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming and while we are optimistic about our ability to complete our clinical trials relatively quickly as compared to average trial lengths for clinical trials, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we may encounter problems that cause it to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: · unforeseen safety issues; 21 · determination of dosing issues; · lack of effectiveness or efficacy during clinical trials; · failure of third party suppliers to perform final manufacturing steps for the drug substance; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators and institutional review boards to follow our clinical protocols; and · lack of sufficient funding to finance the clinical trials. In addition, we or regulatory authorities may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the regulatory authorities find deficiencies in our regulatory submissions or the conduct of these trials. Any suspension of clinical trials will delay possible regulatory approval, if any, and adversely impact our ability to develop products and generate revenue. The manufacture of our product candidates is an exacting and complex process, and if we or one of our materials suppliers encounters problems manufacturing its products, our business could suffer. The FDA and foreign regulators require manufacturers to register manufacturing facilities. The FDA and foreign regulators also inspect these facilities to confirm compliance with requirements that the FDA or foreign regulators establish. We or our materials suppliers may face manufacturing or quality control problems causing product production and shipment delays or a situation where we or the supplier may not be able to maintain compliance with the FDA’s requirements, or those of foreign regulators, necessary to continue manufacturing our drug substance. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding foreign regulators to ensure strict compliance with requirements and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Any failure to comply with requirements or other FDA or foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our clinical research activities and our ability to market and develop our product candidates. We may rely on third parties to implement our manufacturing and supply strategies. If our current and future licensing, manufacturing and supply strategies are unsuccessful, then we may be unable to complete any future pre-clinical or clinical trials and/or commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all. Completion of any potential future pre-clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates will require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates, or the ability to license them to other companies to perform these functions. We do not have the resources, facilities or experience to manufacture our product candidates on our own and do not intend to develop or acquire facilities for the manufacture of product candidates for pre-clinical trials, clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We intend to continue to license technology and/or rely on contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates necessary for any pre-clinical or clinical testing we undertake in the future. Such contract manufacturers may be the sole source of production and may have limited experience at manufacturing, formulating, analyzing, filling and finishing our types of product candidates. We also intend to rely on third parties to supply the components that we will need to develop, test and commercialize all of our product candidates. There may be a limited supply of these components. We might not be able to enter into agreements that provide us assurance of availability of such components in the future from any supplier. Our potential suppliers may not be able to adequately supply us with the components necessary to successfully conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials and/or to commercialize our product candidates. If we cannot acquire an acceptable supply of components to produce our product candidates, we will not be able to complete pre-clinical and clinical trials and will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. 22 If we make technology or product acquisitions, we may incur a number of costs, may have integration difficulties and may experience other risks that could harm our business and results of operations. We may acquire and/or license additional product candidates and/or technologies. Any product candidate or technology we license or acquire will likely require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities, if any. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate or product developed based on licensed technology will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any product candidate that we develop based on acquired or licensed technology that is granted regulatory approval will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace. Moreover, integrating any newly acquired product candidates could be expensive and time-consuming. If we cannot effectively manage these aspects of our business strategy, our business may not succeed. Furthermore, proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition or license can be a lengthy, costly and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition or license of product candidates and/or technologies. We may not be able to acquire the rights to alternative product candidates and/or technologies on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. Our failure to acquire or license alternative product candidates and/or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully grow and expand our business. We may not be able to successfully expand. Successful implementation of our business plan will require management of growth, which will result in an increase in the level of responsibility for management personnel. To manage growth effectively, we will be required to continue to implement and improve our operating and financial systems and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. The management, systems and controls currently in place or to be implemented may not be adequate for such growth, and the steps taken to hire personnel and to improve such systems and controls might not be sufficient. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These difficulties could increase our losses. We may experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our losses could increase. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth or result in ineffective growth. If we are unable to obtain adequate insurance, our financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of uninsured or inadequately insured loss or damage. Our ability to effectively recruit and retain qualified officers and directors could also be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in obtaining adequate directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. We may not be able to obtain insurance policies on terms affordable to us that would adequately insure our business and property against damage, loss or claims by third parties. To the extent our business or property suffers any damages, losses or claims by third parties, which are not covered or adequately covered by insurance, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to maintain sufficient insurance as a public company to cover liability claims made against our officers and directors. If we are unable to adequately insure our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified officers and directors to manage the Company. 23 Compliance with the reporting requirements of federal securities laws can be expensive. We are a public reporting company in the United States and, accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws. The U.S. securities laws require, among other things, review, audit and public reporting of our financial results, business activities and other matters. Recent SEC regulation, including regulation enacted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has also substantially increased the accounting, legal and other costs related to becoming and remaining an SEC reporting company. The public company costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports and other information with the SEC and furnishing audited reports to stockholders will cause our expenses to be higher than they would have been if Modigene Delaware had remained privately-held and did not consummate the merger. These increased costs may be material and may include the hiring of additional employees and/or the retention of additional advisors and professionals. Our failure to comply with the federal securities laws could result in private or governmental legal action against us and/or our officers and directors, which could have a detrimental effect on our business and finances, the value of our stock and the ability of stockholders to resell their stock. Rules applicable to publicly held companies, including those contained in and issued under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may make it difficult for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect the management of our business and our ability to obtain or retain listing of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain those qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for our effective management because of the rules and regulations that govern publicly held companies, including, but not limited to, certifications by principal executive officers. The enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has resulted in the issuance of a series of rules and regulations and the strengthening of existing rules and regulations by the SEC, as well as the adoption of new and more stringent rules by the stock exchanges. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these recent changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting roles as directors and executive officers. Further, some of these rules and regulations heighten the requirements for board or committee membership, particularly with respect to an individual’s independence from the corporation and level of experience in finance and accounting matters. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining directors with the requisite qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, the management of our business and our ability to obtain or retain listing of our shares of common stock on any stock exchange could be adversely affected. We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly-owned subsidiary, to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our wholly-owned subsidiary. Accordingly, all our operations are conducted by Modigene Delaware, our wholly-owned subsidiary (and its wholly-owned subsidiary, ModigeneTech). We currently expect that the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiary will primarily be retained and used by it in its operations, including servicing any debt obligations it may have now or in the future. Accordingly, although we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future, our subsidiary may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to distribute funds to us in order to allow us to pay future dividends on, or make any distributions with respect to our common stock. We may have liabilities arising from our prior business. Prior to the merger, our business involved providing advertising and graphic design services to corporate clients. Pursuant to the merger, we acquired the business of Modigene Delaware and continued the business operations of Modigene Delaware as a publicly-traded company, and accordingly are not pursuing our prior business. Although Modigene Delaware and its legal counsel conducted due diligence on our prior business, the due diligence process may not have revealed all material liabilities of our prior business then existing or that may be asserted in the future against us relating to our activities prior to the consummation of the merger. These liabilities may arise from our prior operating activities (such as employee or labor matters), financing and credit arrangements and other commercial transactions. The merger agreement contains a limited post-closing adjustment to the number of shares of our common stock issued to pre-merger Modigene Delaware stockholders as a means of providing a remedy for breaches of representations made in the merger agreement by us, including representations related to undisclosed liabilities; however, there is no comparable protection offered to our other investors. Any such liabilities that may survive the merger could harm our revenues, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations upon our acceptance of responsibility for such liabilities. Even if any asserted claims are without merit and we were ultimately found to have no liability for such claims, the defense costs and distraction of management’s attention may harm the growth and profitability of our business. 24 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or detect fraud. Consequently, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting and this may decrease the trading price of our stock. We must maintain effective internal controls to provide reliable financial reports and detect fraud. We have been assessing our internal controls to identify areas that need improvement. As a result of the assessment we have implemented changes to internal controls. Failure to properly maintain our internal controls or any others that we identify as necessary to maintain an effective system of internal controls could harm our operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. In addition, such failure may cause us to suffer violations of the federal securities laws to the extent we are unable to maintain effective internal controls as a result. Any such loss of confidence or violations would have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Potential political, economic and military instability in the State of Israel, where key members of our senior management and its research and development facilities are located, may adversely affect our results of operations. We maintain office and research and development facilities in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our ability to conduct business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could affect adversely our operations. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and product development and cause our revenues to fail to develop or decrease if we have already begun sales. Recent disruptions in the financial markets and economic conditions could affect our ability to raise capital and could disrupt or delay the performance of our third-party contractors and suppliers. In the past year, the U.S. and global economies have taken a dramatic downturn as the result of the deterioration in the credit markets and related financial crisis as well as a variety of other factors including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. The U.S. and certain foreign governments have recently taken unprecedented actions in an attempt to address and rectify these extreme market and economic conditions by providing liquidity and stability to the financial markets. If the actions taken by these governments are not successful, the continued economic decline may cause a significant impact on our ability to raise capital, if needed, on a timely basis and on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we rely and intend to rely on third-parties, including our clinical research organizations, third-party manufacturers and second source suppliers, and certain other important vendors and consultants. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors and suppliers. If such third-parties are unable to satisfy their contractual commitments to us, our business could be severely adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We license our core technology from Washington University, and we could lose our rights to this license if a dispute with Washington University arises or if we fail to comply with the financial and other terms of the license. Modigene Delaware licenses our core intellectual property from Washington University. ModigeneTech initially entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with Washington University in 2001, and in 2004 amended such license agreement to extend the CTP technology to eleven therapeutic proteins and make such license exclusive. In February 2007, Washington University and Modigene Delaware entered into a revised and expanded definitive license agreement (the “License Agreement”) pursuant to which we and Washington University expanded the exclusive license, adding additional patents, and expanding the applicability of licensed CTP technology to all proteins and peptides having a native or non-native amino acid sequence, excluding Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH), Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) and Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG). The License Agreement imposes certain payment, reporting, confidentiality and other obligations on us. In the event that we were to breach any of the obligations and fail to cure, Washington University would have the right to terminate the License Agreement upon 90 days’ notice. In addition, Washington University has the right to terminate the License Agreement upon the bankruptcy or receivership of our Company. The termination of the License Agreement would be detrimental to our business, as all of our current product candidates are partly based on the licensed intellectual property. If any dispute arises with respect to our arrangement with Washington University, such dispute may disrupt our operations and would likely have a material and adverse impact on us if resolved in a manner that is unfavorable to our Company. 25 The failure to obtain or maintain patents, licensing agreements and other intellectual property could impact our ability to compete effectively. To compete effectively, we need to develop and maintain a proprietary position with regard to our own technologies, intellectual property, licensing agreements, product candidates and business. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the CTP technology field are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights in our core technologies and any products that might be made using these technologies is also uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: · while the patents we license have been issued, the pending patent applications we have filed may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; · we may be subject to interference proceedings; · we may be subject to opposition proceedings in foreign countries; · any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; · we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; · other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our customers; · other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technologies; · other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed; and · enforcement of patents is complex, uncertain and expensive. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any of our pending applications, and we cannot be certain that any of our issued patents, whether issued pursuant to our pending applications or licensed from Washington University, will give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents, including the patents licensed from Washington University, may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make our inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. It is also possible that others may obtain issued patents that could prevent us from commercializing our products or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we have licensed, our rights depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. In addition to patents and patent applications, we depend upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to any other parties. We require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. These agreements may not, however, provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Costly litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and we may be subject to claims alleging the violation of the intellectual property rights of others. We may face significant expense and liability as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patents and other intellectual property rights of others. In the event that another party has also filed a patent application or been issued a patent relating to an invention or technology claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial uncertainties and costs for us, even if the eventual outcome were favorable to us. We, or our licensors, also could be required to participate in interference proceedings involving issued patents and pending applications of another entity. An adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. 26 The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding relating to our licensed patents or patent applications, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Our ability to enforce our patent protection could be limited by our financial resources, and may be subject to lengthy delays. If we are unable to effectively enforce our proprietary rights, or if we are found to infringe the rights of others, we may be in breach of our License Agreement. A third party may claim that we are using inventions claimed by their patents and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, such as research, development and the sale of any future products. Such lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources. There is a risk that the court will decide that we are infringing the third party’s patents and will order us to stop the activities claimed by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party damages for having infringed their patents. Moreover, there is no guarantee that any prevailing patent owner would offer us a license so that we could continue to engage in activities claimed by the patent, or that such a license, if made available to us, could be acquired on commercially acceptable terms. In addition, third parties may, in the future, assert other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to our product candidates, technologies or other matters. We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce, which could result in third parties using our intellectual property to compete against us. Although we believe that we take reasonable steps to protect our intellectual property, including the use of agreements relating to the non-disclosure of confidential information to third parties, as well as agreements that purport to require the disclosure and assignment to us of the rights to the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them, the agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. Although we seek to obtain these types of agreements from our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators, to the extent that employees and consultants utilize or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise as to the intellectual property rights associated with our products. If a dispute arises, a court may determine that the right belongs to a third party. In addition, enforcement of our rights can be costly and unpredictable. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: · these agreements may be breached; · these agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; · our trade secrets or proprietary know-how will otherwise become known; or · our competitors will independently develop similar technology or proprietary information. International patent protection is particularly uncertain, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. Patent law outside the United States is even more uncertain than in the United States and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. We may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors’ foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. 27 We may be unable to protect the intellectual property rights of the third parties from whom we license certain of our intellectual property or with whom we have entered into other strategic relationships. Certain of our intellectual property rights are currently licensed from Washington University and, in the future, we intend to continue to license intellectual property from Washington University and/or other key strategic partners. We are, and will continue to be, reliant upon such third parties to protect their intellectual property rights to any licensed technology. Such third parties may determine not to protect the intellectual property rights that we license from them and we may be unable defend such intellectual property rights on our own or we may have to undertake costly litigation to defend the intellectual property rights of such third parties. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have proprietary rights to any of the intellectual property that we license from such third parties or otherwise have the right to use through similar strategic relationships. Any loss or limitations on use with respect to our right to use such intellectual property licensed from third parties or otherwise obtained from third parties with whom we have entered into strategic relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to government regulations, and we may experience delays in obtaining required regulatory approvals in the United States to market our proposed product candidates. Various aspects of our operations are or may become subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. Costs arising out of any regulatory developments could be time-consuming, expensive and could divert management resources and attention and, consequently, could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Delays in regulatory approval, limitations in regulatory approval and withdrawals of regulatory approval may have a negative impact on our results. If we experience significant delays in testing or approvals, our product development costs, or our ability to license product candidates, will increase. If the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product has demonstrated, through clinical trials, to be safe and effective. Any product approvals that we receive in the future could also include significant restrictions on the use or marketing of our products. Product approvals, if granted, can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or upon the occurrence of adverse events following commercial introduction of the products. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. If approval is withdrawn for a product, or if a product were seized or recalled, we would be unable to sell or license that product and our revenues would suffer. In addition, outside the United States, our ability to market any of our potential products is contingent upon receiving market application authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities and these foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above. We face significant competition and continuous technological change. If our competitors develop and commercialize products faster than we do, or develop and commercialize products that are superior to our product candidates, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The extent to which any of our product candidates achieve market acceptance will depend on competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense and has been accentuated by the rapid pace of technology development. Our competitors include large integrated pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies that currently have drug and target discovery efforts, universities, and public and private research institutions. Almost all of these entities have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources than we do, as well as more experience in research and development, clinical trials, regulatory matters, manufacturing, marketing and sales. These organizations also compete with us to: · attract parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations; · license proprietary technology that is competitive with the technology we are developing; · attract funding; and 28 · attract and hire scientific talent. Our competitors may succeed in developing and commercializing products earlier and obtaining regulatory approvals from the FDA more rapidly than we do. Our competitors may also develop products or technologies that are superior to those we are developing, and render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing products, our marketing and sales will suffer and we may not ever be profitable. We expect the healthcare industry to face increased scrutiny over reimbursement and healthcare reform, which could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products. In both the United States and other countries, sales of our products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third party payors, which include government health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures, including reductions in the cost of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. Although we cannot predict the full effect on our business of the implementation of any legislation, we believe that legislation that reduces reimbursement for our products could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products. This could materially and adversely impact our business by reducing our ability to generate revenue, raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of pharmaceutical products, which may adversely impact product sales. We are subject to federal anti-kickback laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have adverse consequences to us. There are extensive federal and state laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry that can result in significant criminal and civil penalties. These federal laws include: the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits certain business practices and relationships, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by Medicare or other federal healthcare programs; the physician self-referral prohibition, commonly referred to as the Stark Law; the anti-inducement law, which prohibits providers from offering anything to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary to induce that beneficiary to use items or services covered by either program; the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by the federal government, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the United States Department of Health and Human Services to impose civil penalties administratively for fraudulent or abusive acts. Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, money penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments, or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or both. As federal and state budget pressures continue, federal and state administrative agencies may also continue to escalate investigation and enforcement efforts to root out waste and to control fraud and abuse in governmental healthcare programs. Private enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that were designed to encourage private persons to sue on behalf of the government. A violation of any of these federal and state fraud and abuse laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. An investigation into the use by physicians of any of our products once commercialized may dissuade physicians from either purchasing or using them, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize those products. 29 Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock has a limited trading history and prospective investors may not be able to sell their shares at their purchase price, if at all. There is currently a limited public market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on FINRA’s OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “MODG.OB.” Prior to our merger with Modigene Delaware, there was no trading of our common stock, and there is no assurance that a regular trading market will develop or, if developed, will be sustained. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, our common stock. We expect the market price of our common stock will fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals, quarterly variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations, changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, developments in our industry, and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance or the condition or prospects of our industry. We cannot assure you that our common stock will become liquid or that it will be listed on a securities exchange. We may seek listing of our common stock on the NYSE Alternext US (formerly the American Stock Exchange) or the Nasdaq Stock Market. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of either of those or of any other stock exchange, or that we will be able to maintain any such listing. Until the common stock is listed on an exchange, we expect to remain eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board, or on another over-the-counter quotation system, or in the “pink sheets.” In those venues, however, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the common stock. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect the liquidity of our common stock. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or attract qualified employees or partners. Further, the stock market in general, and securities of small-cap companies in particular, have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. You should also be aware that price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of the common stock is low. Applicable SEC rules governing the trading of “penny stocks” limits the trading and liquidity of our common stock which may affect the trading price of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently less than $5.00 per share and therefore is designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell the common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. In addition, since our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. The price of our common stock may become volatile, which could lead to losses by investors and costly securities litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate in response to factors such as: · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; · announcements of developments by us or our competitors; 30 · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · adoption of new accounting standards affecting our industry; · additions or departures of key personnel; · introduction of new products by us or our competitors; · sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and · other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against the company. Litigation initiated against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition. We do not anticipate dividends to be paid on our common stock, and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment. Cash dividends have never been declared or paid on our common stock, and we do not anticipate such a declaration or payment for the foreseeable future. We expect to use future earnings, if any, to fund business growth. Therefore, stockholders will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure stockholders of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares, nor can we assure that stockholders will not lose the entire amount of their investment. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage or continue to cover our common stock, and this may have a negative impact on its market price. The trading market for our common stock will depend on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about our business and us. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its market price. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our stock is the subject of an unfavorable report, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In addition, because we became public through a “reverse merger,” we may have further difficulty attracting the coverage of securities analysts. Stockholders may experience dilution of ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock and our preferred stock. In the future, we may issue our authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 310,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 300,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with preferences and rights to be determined by our Board of Directors. As of March 10, 2009, there were 35,549,028 shares of our common stock outstanding and a total of 8,788,848 shares subject to outstanding options and warrants. On March 25, 2008, we authorized and issued 800,000 shares of preferred stock designated as Series A preferred stock, and we have reserved a total of 4,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance upon conversion of the Series A preferred stock. Under a line of credit agreement entered into on March 25, 2008, we may become obligated to issue warrants exercisable for an additional 1,500,000 shares of our common stock if we draw on or extend the line of credit. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of our common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock are currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. 31 Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates control approximately 35.7% of our outstanding common stock. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. Holders of our common stock have no effective voice in the management of the Company. Sales by insiders or affiliates of the Company, along with any other market transactions, could affect the market price of our common stock. A significant number of our shares are eligible for sale, which could depress the market price of our stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of the common stock will increase, which could decrease its price. Further, shares may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 