ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Dividend Policy The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors and the reduction or elimination of dividends would negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors and our board of directors may decide to eliminate or reduce any dividends paid on our common stock. Any reduction or elimination of dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could further cause your shares of common stock to become less liquid, which may result in losses by you. Even if our board of directors desires to declare and pay dividends, we might not have cash in the future to pay dividends in the intended amounts or at all. Our ability to pay dividends, and our board of directors’ determination to keep our dividend policy, will depend on numerous factors, including the following: · the state of our business, competition and changes in our industry; 13 · changes in the factors, assumptions and other considerations made by our board of directors in reviewing and revising our dividend policy; · our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources; · our various expected cash needs, including cash interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, the purchase price of acquisitions, costs associated with being a public company and taxes; and · potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. We cannot assure you that our actual cash available to pay dividends will in fact equal or exceed the amount necessary to pay dividends at any time. Over time, our capital and other cash needs will invariably be subject to uncertainties, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the level of any dividends we may pay in the future. In addition, to the extent that we would seek to raise additional cash from additional debt incurrence or equity security issuances, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on reasonable terms or at all. Each of the factors listed above could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy or at all. If our estimates relating to dividends payable in the future change, you may not receive the amount of dividends you expected. If our estimates of cash available to pay dividends in the future were to fall below our expectations, our assumptions as to estimated cash needs were to be too low or if other applicable assumptions were to prove incorrect, we may need to: · either reduce or eliminate dividends, which may result in a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock; · fund dividends by incurring additional debt (to the extent we were permitted to do so under the agreements governing our then existing debt), which would increase our leverage and limit our funding alternatives for other uses; · amend the terms of Reddy Group’s senior credit facility or the indenture governing our senior discount notes to permit us to pay dividends or make other payments if we are otherwise not permitted to do so, which is likely to require us to incur significant costs; · fund dividends from future issuances of equity securities, which could be dilutive to our stockholders and negatively affect the market price of our common stock; · fund dividends from other sources, such as by asset sales or by working capital, which would leave us with less cash available for other purposes; and · reduce other expected uses of cash, such as capital expenditures and acquisitions, which could limit our ability to grow. Our ability to pay dividends will be restricted by agreements governing our debt, including Reddy Group’s senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior discount notes and by Delaware law. Reddy Group’s senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior discount notes restrict our ability to pay dividends. We refer you to “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 7, where we describe the terms of our indebtedness, including provisions limiting our ability to declare and pay dividends. 14 Additionally, under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. If, as a result of these restrictions, we are required to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. This may in turn result in losses by you. Our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities, which may harm our competitive position and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we continue paying dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to consummate acquisitions, and may need to seek financing to fund a material expansion of our business, including any significant acquisitions or to pursue growth opportunities requiring capital expenditures significantly beyond our current expectations. The risks relating to funding any dividends, or other cash needs as a result of paying dividends, are summarized in the preceding risk factors. If we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future financial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may reduce our cash flow and impede our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our indebtedness and operate our business. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $353.0 million, which represented approximately 66% of our total consolidated capitalization. As of December 31, 2005, we also had availability of $54.7 million (net of standby letters of credit of approximately $5.3 million) under Reddy Group’s revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, thus making it more difficult for us to pay dividends on our common stock; · make us more vulnerable to, and reduce our flexibility in planning for, changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; · limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy, or other purposes; and · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt. 15 Any of the above listed factors could make us more vulnerable to defaults and place us at a competitive disadvantage, therefore making an investment in our common stock less attractive when compared to other investments. Further, if we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We could incur more indebtedness, which may increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends on our common stock. The indenture governing our senior discount notes and Reddy Group’s senior credit facility permit us, under certain circumstances, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. For example, Reddy Group’s senior credit facility allows us to incur up to an additional $80.0 million of incremental term loans under the credit facility, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness through Reddy Group’s revolving credit facility. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our common stock, would increase. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The terms of Reddy Group’s senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior discount notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Reddy Group’s senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior discount notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of financial and other restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. For a more complete description of these covenants and restrictions, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 7. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our existing and future debt agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our new credit facilities could result in a default under such facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders may elect to declare all obligations under Reddy Group’s senior credit facility to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings, any of which would result in an event of default under our senior discount notes. If the debt under Reddy Group’s senior credit facility or our senior discount notes were to be accelerated, our business operations would be interrupted, which would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The seasonal nature of the ice business results in losses and lower margins in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We experience significant seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and profitability. We make a disproportionate amount of our sales in the second and third calendar quarters when the weather is generally warmer, which results in an increased demand for ice. We also earn our net income during these same periods. As a result of seasonal revenue declines and the lack of a corresponding decrease in expenses, we experience net losses and materially lower margins during the first and fourth calendar quarters. Variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of our cash flows and therefore limit our ability to timely service our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to pay dividends. In addition, because our operating results depend significantly on sales during the second and third calendar quarters, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly if the weather during these periods is cool or rainy. 16 Weather conditions and weather events can decrease our sales or increase our expenses. Cool or rainy weather can decrease sales, while extremely hot weather may increase our expenses, each resulting in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Ice consumers demand ice for a variety of reasons, but many of them buy ice in connection with outdoor related activities, both commercial and recreational. As a result, demand for ice increases during periods of warm, sunny weather, and conversely, demand decreases during periods of cool, rainy weather. During extended periods of cool or rainy weather on a national basis, our revenues and results of operations may substantially decline. Also, hot weather does not necessarily result in greater net income. During extended periods of hot weather, our profits and cash flow may decline because of an increase in expenses in response to excess demand. We may have to transport ice from one plant to another and, in some cases, purchase ice from third party sources and transport it to a specific market to meet this excess demand, resulting in higher expenses and inconsistent service and product quality. Finally, although extreme weather events such as hurricanes can cause an increase in volume sales, those sales are not necessarily profitable due to added costs and disruptions to our normal service and distribution routes. Our failure to successfully compete in our markets, retain existing customers and obtain new customers could limit our prospects and cause us to lose market share. Our businesses are highly competitive. We have many competitors in each of our geographic markets offering similar products and services. Competition in our businesses is based primarily on service, quality and price. We could lose market share if we fail to successfully compete against our competitors in any of these areas, if our existing competitors expand their capacity, if new entrants successfully penetrate our markets, if we fail to adequately serve our existing base of customers, or if our larger grocery or convenience store customers decide to manufacture their own ice rather than purchase our products. Increases in the prices of certain raw materials, electricity, insurance and other required expenses could, if we cannot pass those price increases along to our customers, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We use substantial amounts of polyethylene, which is the primary raw material used to manufacture the bags we use to package our ice, electricity in connection with our manufacturing process and fuel to operate the refrigerated trucks for ice delivery. We also carry general liability, workers’ compensation, health and vehicle insurance. We have already experienced increases in bag costs, fuel costs and insurance costs and may experience further increases in the future. If the prices for these items or other expenses increase beyond the amounts that we are able to pass along to our customers, our margins and our operating cash flow would decrease. Our acquisitions may not be successfully integrated and could cause unexpected financial or operational difficulties. In 2004 and 2005, we completed a total of 13 acquisitions. We anticipate that we may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions are also accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. Further, acquisitions are subject to risks associated with the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, any of which could increase the costs of operating our business, negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions or result in the loss of customers. 17 We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of contamination. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations, or incidents resulting in environmental releases, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and penalties, third party claims for personal injury, investments to retrofit or upgrade our facilities and programs, or curtailment of our operations. For example, our ice manufacturing and cold storage operations use refrigerants such as ammonia and Freon. Some of our facilities may not be in compliance with certain Freon refrigerant requirements, such as leak detection and repair, recordkeeping or reporting. In addition, the market price of Freon is rising as a result of phase-outs under federal laws, which could significantly increase our operating costs in the future if we are not able to obtain approved substitutes. From time to time, our use of ammonia has resulted in releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in lawsuits or administrative penalties. For example, we have settled litigation resulting from an ammonia release in June 2001 at our Baton Rouge, Louisiana facility. See Item 3. Material violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws may require us to incur substantial costs which could reduce our margins, or to divert resources from ongoing environmental programs and improvements, which could delay our efforts to integrate acquisitions and upgrade our operations, or expose us to risk of further environmental liability. Our business could be disrupted or we could incur substantial costs because of government laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws relating to many aspects of our business, including labeling, sanitation, health and safety and manufacturing processes. We cannot predict the types of government regulations that may be enacted in the future by the various levels of government or how existing or future laws or regulations will be interpreted or enforced. The enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or a stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations may cause a disruption in our operations or require additional expenditures by us, some of which could be material. We may incur material costs and liabilities in order to comply with any such laws and regulations and such costs and liabilities may result in substantial expenses to us and could divert management’s time and attention. If we are unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees, our business might be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is high. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct our operations successfully. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of our senior management team and in particular on the continued service of William P. Brick, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Jimmy C. Weaver, our President and Chief Operating Officer. In addition, we do not carry “key man” life insurance. Our inability to successfully attract and retain personnel or the loss of any member of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan. Accidents involving our products and equipment could expose us to increased costs as a result of product liability claims. We are subject to a risk of product liability claims and adverse publicity if a consumer is or claims to be harmed while using our products or equipment. Any such claim may result in negative publicity, loss of revenues or higher costs associated with litigation. 18 We currently carry product liability insurance. However, this insurance may be insufficient to pay for all or a large part of these losses. If our insurance does not adequately cover these losses, our results of operations and cash flow would decrease and such a decrease could be material. We may lose customers’ business to competitors as a result of our limited intellectual property protection, including on The Ice Factory®. As the sole major ice supplier using an on-site production and delivery system at our customers’ retail locations, we have enjoyed a competitive advantage over our competitors. Our proprietary Ice Factory system is preferred by certain of our high volume customers to traditional ice delivery and gives us more flexibility during peak seasons. Competitors sometimes test machines similar to The Ice Factory. If any of our competitors are successful with the rollout of a competing system, we could lose business to these companies, which would result in decreased cash flows and results of operations. It is our practice to protect certain of our proprietary materials and processes by relying on trade secrets laws and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements. Confidentiality or trade secrets may not be maintained and others may independently develop or obtain access to such materials or processes, which could adversely affect our competitive position and ability to differentiate our products and services from our competitors’ offerings. Limitations on our ability to utilize our tax assets before they expire may negatively affect financial results and the ability to pay dividends to you. As of December 31, 2005, we had net operating loss carry-forwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $122 million, of which approximately $84 million was attributable to the Predecessor. There are annual limitations on the utilization of the net operating loss carry-forwards generated by the Predecessor due to changes in ownership on and prior to August 15, 2003. We cannot assure you that we will be able to utilize our tax assets. Further, since at the closing of our initial public offering on August 12, 2005 our existing equity investors ceased to own a majority of our common stock, new limitations apply to the approximately $38 million of net operating loss carry-forwards that were generated by the Successor prior to that date and additional limitations apply to the net operating loss carry-forwards generated by the Predecessor. If we are not able to utilize our tax assets in the manner or in the timeframe we anticipate, our future after-tax cash flow available for payment of dividends on our common stock will be reduced. Any significant reduction in goodwill and other intangible assets would have an adverse effect on the value of our business. Our acquisitions have resulted in significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, and intangible assets totaled approximately $297.3 million at December 31, 2005, representing approximately 49% of our total assets. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business, and a variety of other circumstances. During the three months ended June 30, 2005, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $5.7 million to the goodwill in the cold storage portion of our non-ice products and operations business segment as a result of a significant reduction in cold storage sales volumes related to a particular customer. The amount of this and any future impairment must be charged to earnings. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of the goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet could have an adverse effect on the value of our business. 19 We are subject to additional regulations as a result of being a public company, which will result in a greater burden on our management resources and increased costs. As a public company with listed equity securities, we are required to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain additional provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regulations and requirements of the New York Stock Exchange that we did not need to comply with as a private company. Preparing to comply and complying with new statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of the time of our board of directors, management and our officers, will increase our costs and expenses and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We will need to: · create or expand the roles and duties of our board of directors, our board committees and management; · institute a more comprehensive compliance function; · establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading. · involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and · enhance our investor relations function. As of December 31, 2005, certain of these requirements are not yet applicable to us. Our status as a public company has increased our insurance costs and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified officers and directors. Being a public company has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance due to potentially greater personal liability faced by public company officers and directors. We may also, in the future, be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our management and board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We are in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by our December 31, 2006 deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange. Any such action could increase expenses, divert management’s attention or lower investors’ confidence in our company, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, our controls and procedures may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. 20 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We are a recently listed public company. As a result, the market for our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decrease. Before our recently completed initial public offering, there had been no public market for our common stock. Because our common stock has a limited trading history, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, such as period-to-period fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results, sales of our common stock by our existing equity investors, failure to pay dividends at anticipated levels, developments in our industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts, failure to meet financial estimates by analysts, competitive factors, general economic and securities market conditions and other external factors. Also, securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic or market conditions, and market conditions affecting the stock of companies in our industry in particular, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. If our share price is volatile, we may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. If the market value of our common stock experiences adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 13, 2006 we had 21,637,020 shares of common stock outstanding. Of those shares, the 11,730,000 shares sold in our initial public offering in August 2005 are freely tradable. Of the remaining shares, 311,620 shares represent restricted shares, all of which are subject to vesting on or prior to July 1, 2007. The 9,595,400 remaining shares will be eligible for resale from time to time, subject to contractual and Securities Act restrictions. In addition to our common stock outstanding, 697,625 restricted share units were outstanding as of March 13, 2006 and are subject to vesting on or prior to August 12, 2009. Our Sponsors, which collectively own 8,674,388 shares, have the ability to cause us to register the resale of their shares. Certain other holders of our common stock, including members of our management, will be able to participate in such registration. We have previously registered on Form S-8 all 750,000 shares reserved in connection with our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, including the shares underlying the outstanding restricted shares units, and such shares may be sold as provided therein. We are a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt service and other obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. We do not have, apart from our ownership of Reddy Group, any independent operations. As a result, we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from Reddy Group and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of Reddy 21 Group and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on our operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the covenants that are contained in our new credit facilities and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. In addition, because we are a holding company, claims by our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our subsidiaries, including obligations under our new credit facilities. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. Our Sponsors may have significant influence on our company, including control over decisions that require the approval of equityholders, whether or not such decisions are believed by the other equityholders to be in their own best interests. Trimaran Fund Management L.L.C. and Bear Stearns Merchant Banking (together, our “Sponsors”) beneficially own approximately 40.0% of our common stock. Accordingly, in the event that our Sponsors decide to act in concert, so long as our Sponsors continue to own a significant percentage of our common stock they would have the collective ability to significantly influence or effectively control the outcomes of various matters requiring stockholder approval, including the nomination and election of directors, the determination of our corporate and management policies and the determination of the terms of and outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. Provisions of our charter documents and the DGCL may inhibit a takeover, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents and the DGCL, the state in which we are incorporated, could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. Our board of directors could therefore authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could dilute the voting power or diminish other rights of holders of our common stock. Additional provisions are included in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions, including: · the sole power of a majority of the board of directors to fix the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the board of directors; · requirements for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals; and · the inability of stockholders to act by written consent and restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. 22 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 