ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of the risks described below may apply to more than just the subsection in which we grouped them for the purpose of this presentation. You should consider all of the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with a limited operating history, which makes us a speculative investment. We are a development stage company that seeks to commercialize our exclusive licensing rights to proprietary technology to manufacture biofuel that we acquired in early 2006. Since then, we have been engaged in organizational activities, including developing our business plan, hiring key management, optimizing product performance, developing our production facility, raising capital, conducting test burns with potential customers and entering into initial sales contracts. We currently have ten employees. We have generated very limited revenues. Accordingly, we have limited relevant operating history upon which you can evaluate our performance and prospects. You should consider our prospects in light of the inherent risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stage of development, particularly companies in new and evolving markets such as the renewable fuels industry. Such risks include technology risks, capital requirements, lack of market acceptance of our products, failure to establish business relationships, competitive disadvantages against larger and more established companies and regulatory matters. We have a history of losses, deficits and negative operating cash flows and will likely continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future which may impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. We expect to incur operating losses and continued negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we invest in sales and marketing, test burns with potential customers, research and development and production facilities to achieve our business objectives. We may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. To be profitable, we will have to significantly increase our revenues and reduce our costs. Future revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors such as those discussed here, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to increase our revenues, reduce costs or achieve profitability, we may have to reduce or terminate our operations. We are unlikely to be able to continue as a going concern if we are unable to complete another financing by the end of the third quarter of 2009, which could be particularly challenging in the near term under current financial market conditions. In March 2009, we completed a private placement of common stock and warrants, raising $3,166,000 in gross proceeds. We will require additional capital to finance future operating budgets and our longer term business growth plan. As of December 31, 2008, we have incurred a net loss of $27.5 million and negative cash flows from operating activities of $11.7 million since inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.5 million of available cash and approximately $1.4 million of accounts payable and accrued expenses. In addition, under the license agreement with the inventor of our proprietary technology, we are required to pay $1.0 million per year over the next five years. In October 2008, we began making monthly payments under our production facility site lease and terminaling service agreement. Given our financial commitments and our limited existing resources, we are unlikely to be able to continue as a going concern unless we are able to obtain additional financing, which could be particularly challenging in the near term under current financial market conditions. The expansion of our business will require us to commit significant capital resources in amounts substantially in excess of our current financial resources. 13 We have financed our operations to date primarily through the sale of our preferred stock, common stock and warrants in privately-negotiated transactions with accredited investors. Future capital requirements could vary significantly and will depend on certain factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include the ongoing development and testing of our proprietary technology, the nature and timing of licensing and sublicensing activities, plant construction, sales growth, hiring and retaining qualified management and employees, responding to competitive pressures, regulatory requirements and available financing. Because of our continuing need to raise additional capital, we are likely to seek additional financing on an opportunistic basis whenever we believe there is a suitable opportunity to do so. Any needed financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, future equity financings, if any, could be dilutive to existing shareholders, and could require approval from shareholders, which cannot be assured. If additional financing is not available when needed, you may lose your entire investment in our company. Sufficient customer acceptance for our biofuel may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate, and as a result, our revenues and profits, if any, may be insufficient to fund our operations. Sufficient markets may never develop for our biofuel, may develop more slowly than we anticipate or may develop with economics that are not favorable for us. The development of sufficient markets for our biofuel at favorable pricing may be affected by cost competitiveness of our biofuel, customer reluctance to try a new product and emergence of more competitive products. Because we only recently began manufacturing our biofuel, potential customers may be skeptical about product stability, supply availability, quality control and our financial viability, which may prevent them from purchasing our biofuel or entering into long-term supply agreements with us. We cannot estimate or predict whether a market for our biofuel will develop, whether sufficient demand for our biofuel will materialize at favorable prices, or whether satisfactory profit margins will be achieved. If such pricing levels are not achieved or sustained, or if our technologies and business approach to our markets do not achieve or sustain broad acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to produce and distribute commercially viable biofuel is unproven, and until we can prove our technology, we likely will not be able to generate or sustain revenues. While producing biofuel from vegetable oils or animal fats is not a new technology, the technologies we are pursuing for our biofuel production have never been utilized on a commercial basis. Our biofuel, while intended as a new class of biofuel for power generation, commercial and industrial heating and marine use, may never achieve technical or commercial viability. All of the tests that we have conducted to date with respect to our technology have been performed in a limited scale environment, and the same or similar results may not be obtainable at competitive costs on a large-scale commercial basis. We have conducted multiple test burns of our biofuel products with potential customers. However, others may need to replicate these tests before our biofuel becomes commercially acceptable. We have never utilized our technology under the conditions or in the volumes that will be required for us to be profitable and cannot predict all of the difficulties that may arise. Our technology may require further research, development, regulatory approvals, environmental permits, design and testing prior to commercialization. Accordingly, our technology and our biofuel may not perform successfully on a commercial basis and may never generate any revenues or be profitable. We likely will not be able to generate significant revenues until we can successfully validate our product performance with customers and operate our manufacturing facility on a commercial scale. To date, we have generated a small amount of revenues on sales of limited quantities of our biofuel. Revenue generation could be impacted by any of the following: · delays in demonstrating the technological advantages or commercial viability of our proposed products; · problems with our commercial scale production plant, including delays in completion of the plant, technical staffing, permitting or other operational issues; · inability to interest early adopter customers in our products; and · inability to obtain cost effective supplies of vegetable oil and feedstocks. Any planned manufacturing plants may not achieve projected capacity or efficiency, and we may not be able to sell our biofuel generated at these plants at prices that will cover our costs. Potential customers may require lengthy or complex trials or long sampling periods before committing to significant orders for our products. The current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Due to the recent tightening of global credit and the disruption in the financial markets, many of our potential customers are unable to access capital necessary to accommodate the use of our biofuel. Many are operating under austerity budgets that limit their ability to invest in infrastructure necessary to use alternative fuels and that make it significantly more difficult to take risks with new fuel sources. As a result, we may experience increased difficulties in convincing customers to adopt our biofuel as a viable alternative at this time. 14 We may not be able to generate revenues from sublicensing our technology. Our exclusive perpetual license allows us to sublicense our proprietary technology in North America, Central America and the Caribbean, and our business plan includes, as a second potential revenue stream, the collection of royalties through sublicensing our proprietary technology. To date, we do not have any revenues from sublicenses and have only entered into one sublicense, with Global Energy Holdings Group, Inc. (formerly Xethanol Corporation, “Global Energy”) There can be no assurance that Global Energy will be able to perform its obligations under the sublicense. Since Global Energy sold its remainig 5,301,300 shares of our common stock that it owned in March 2009, we are re-evaluating our agreements with Global Energy and may engage in discussions to modify or terminate them. We likely will need to prove the viability of our technology before we can obtain any additional sublicense agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Companies to which we grant sublicenses may not be able to produce, market and sell enough biofuel to pay us royalty fees or they may default on the payment of royalties. We may not be able to achieve profitable operations from collecting royalties from the sublicensing of our proprietary technology. The strategic relationships upon which we may rely are subject to change. Our ability to successfully test our technology, to develop and operate manufacturing plants and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers or sublicensees will depend on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants. These relationships will need to change and evolve over time, as we enter different phases of development. Our strategic relationships most often are not yet reflected in definitive agreements, or the agreements we have do not cover all aspects of the relationship. Our success in this area also will depend on our ability to select and evaluate new strategic relationships and to consummate transactions. Our inability to identify suitable companies or enter into and maintain strategic relationships may impair our ability to grow. The terms of relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to incur or undertake in order to maintain these relationships. Moreover, reliance upon strategic partners to manufacture and sell our biofuel subjects us to additional risks, including a limited ability to control the quality of such fuel and the failure of such partners to perform in accordance with the terms of agreements that they may enter into with us. Arrangements we enter into with such partners may compete with any biofuel that we may manufacture at our own plants and therefore may limit our organic growth. Our biofuel and other alternative sources are at significant disadvantage to petroleum fuels. Our biofuel and other alternative fuels like biodiesel compete with petroleum-based fuels. Currently, the cost of producing most alternative fuels forces manufacturers to operate at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to petroleum-based fuels. Producers of alternative fuels generally depend upon government support, including tax credits and various incentives and mandates to purchase alternative fuels, and upon the willingness of customers to pay a premium for cleaner burning, renewable non-petroleum fuels. We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive alternative fuels market. Within the alternative fuels market, the manufacture, marketing and sale of biofuels (such as biodiesel) and other alternative fuels is highly competitive. Such competition could be intense and could drive up the costs of feedstock, plant construction, attracting and retaining qualified engineers, chemists and other key employees, as well as other operating expenses. Additionally, new companies are constantly entering the market. This growth and fragmentation could negatively impact us or our sublicensees’ ability to obtain additional capital from investors. Larger companies which have been engaged in this business for substantially longer periods of time may have access to greater financial and other resources. These companies may have greater success in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and in fuel manufacturing and marketing, which may give them a competitive advantage. We may never develop the scale economies necessary to optimize our cost structure and enable us to produce and sell our biofuels for a profit. Our current business model depends, in part, on developing sufficiently large sales volumes and production capacity to be able to realize economies of scale and minimize raw materials, sourcing, logistics and transportation costs. If we are unable to generate sufficient economies of scale in our operations, we may be unable to obtain volume discounts on raw materials and transportation or cut marginal production costs to the level necessary to profitably price our biofuel. 15 Unless the U.S. Treasury Department sets a biofuel standard that our biofuels can meet, our biofuels will not qualify for the tax credits for biodiesel and renewable diesel found in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and these biodiesel tax credits and the tax credits for which we are currently eligible are scheduled to expire at the end of 2009. If our biofuels qualify, tax credits for alternative fuels can help us offset our production costs and compete more effectively with traditional fuels. The failure to qualify for these tax credits could limit our business prospects. In addition to the incentives on the federal level, several states also offer state tax incentives for the production of biodiesel. However, most of these states define the term “biodiesel” using the same definition as the Code. Although we believe that the cost of producing our biofuel will be significantly lower than the cost of producing biodiesel using conventional technologies, a portion of this cost advantage may be substantially offset if tax credits available to producers of conventional biodiesel are higher than tax credits for which our biofuel qualifies. Our biofuel does meet the definition of “alternative fuel” eligible under the Code for a 50 cent per gallon credit when mixed with diesel, kerosene or other taxable fuel and sold at the retail level. Unless extended by Congress, however, this credit will expire on December 31, 2009. If our biofuels do not qualify for government mandated or incentivized renewable energy credits or renewable portfolio standards, our potential customers may be less likely to pay a premium for our biofuels, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. More than thirty states have enacted renewable energy credits (“RECs”) or renewable portfolio standards (“RPS”), including volume mandates, tax credits and other incentives for the use of renewable fuels. Our business model depends in part, on our biofuels qualifying for RECs and RPS and that our customers will pay a premium for our biofuels in order to receive the tax credits or comply with the government mandates. However, if we do not receive a premium for our biofuel or our biofuel does not qualify our customers for the credits or incentives, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues or profits which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may never fully realize the value of our technology license agreement, which presently is our principal asset. We may not be successful in realizing the expected benefits from our master license agreement, which represented over 72% of our total assets as of December 31, 2008. Based on our estimation, as of December 31, 2008, of the discounted future cash flows expected to be generated, we recorded a write-down of the License Agreement in the amount of $1,600,369, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have generated only minimal revenues and no cash flows from our biofuel. We recorded our initial fuel sale in October 2008 and accordingly began to amortize the license agreement.. Further, we initially intended to use the licensed technology to generate our expected revenues without any significant modification, but we have conducted significant additional research and development to modify the basic fuel technology to meet market demands for particular fuel attributes. To date, we have incurred approximately $2.0 million in research and development separate from our license payments, and we are continuing to incur additional research and development costs to optimize our fuels to test different feedstocks and to tailor the fuel energy output, emissions and other specifications to the specific needs of potential customers. Our business depends on proprietary technology that we may not be able to protect and may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success will depend, in large part, on our technology’s commercial viability and on the strength of our intellectual property rights. Much of the technology presently consists only of trade secret rights, which are difficult to protect. If others gain access to the trade secrets relating to our technology, including through analysis or “reverse engineering,” they may able to develop substantially equivalent technology. Although we filed patent applications on behalf of the inventor to protect our technology, there can be no assurance that we ultimately will receive patent protection or that any protection that is obtained will be broad enough to be effective in protecting our technology against claims or actions by competitors. Further, any patents that are obtained may not withstand challenges as to validity and enforceability. Third parties may assert that the technology, or the products we or our sub-licensees commercialize using the technology, infringes upon their proprietary rights. We have yet to complete an infringement analysis and, even if such an analysis were available at the current time, we could not be certain that no infringement exists, particularly as our products have not yet been fully developed. We may need to acquire additional licenses from third parties in order to avoid infringement claims, and any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent infringement claims are made, we could incur substantial costs in the resulting litigation, and the existence of this type of litigation could impede the development of our business. 16 Our technology may become ineffective or obsolete. To be competitive in the biofuel industry, we may be required to continually enhance and update our technology. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and if we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to compete may be impaired. The impact of technical shortcomings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we cannot make the required payments under our license agreement for our proprietary technology, the inventor may be able to terminate the agreement, which could preclude us from selling our biofuel. We still have substantial obligations under the license agreement with the inventor of our proprietary technology. Specifically, we are required to pay Mr. Petrucci an additional $1.0 million in cash per year for the next five years, for a total of $5.0 million in remaining payments. To the extent we default on any of these payments or breach any other material provisions of our license, the inventor could terminate the agreement, which is our principal asset. The license agreement also provides that the inventor may terminate the agreement if an insolvency or bankruptcy petition is filed against us and is not dismissed within 90 days. We depend on key personnel to execute our business plan. If we cannot attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. As of December 31, 2008, we had 11 full-time employees. In March 2009, David Gillespie resigned as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of our key management. We have a relatively small team, and the loss of a key individual or inability to attract suitably qualified replacements or additional staff could adversely affect our business. No assurance can be given that our key personnel will continue their association or employment with us or that replacement personnel with comparable skills will be found. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and additional employees, our business may be adversely affected. 2020 Energy, LLC owns approximately 29.5% or our outstanding common stock, and Ferdinardo Petrucci, the inventor of our prprietary technology owns approximately 7.3% of our common stock. The managing and sole memeber of 2020 Energy has partnered with Mr. Petrucci to form PTJ Bioenergy Holdings, Ltd, an entity that is the licensor (by assignment from Mr. Petrucci) of our technology. 2020 Energy and Mr. Petrucci may delay, defer or prevent us from taking actions that would be beneficial to our other shareholders. As of March 30, 2009, 2020 Energy, LLC and Mr. Petrucci combined owned approximately 36.8% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they may be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of our board of directors and any proposed merger or consolidation of our company. Their ownership interest in our company may discourage potential investors from investing in our securities due to concerns with the overhang on our common stock and third parties from seeking to acquire control of our company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry The current economic and political environment may provide increased uncertainty and unpredictability that may have an adverse effect on our industry. Our industry relies heavily on governmental incentives, usually tax-based, and government mandates to encourage broad market acceptance and use of alternative fuels. We expect that the support for new renewable energy polices by the Obama Administration and the new Congress will likely have a positive impact on the market’s willingness to embrace alternative fuels. However, the timing and the effectiveness of these plans are unknown and may not provide the requisite support to ensure success of the alternative fuels industry. In addition, the global economic recession and the tight capital markets have depressed fuel prices and energy demand, limited the ability of customers to spend funds on new, experimental fuels and limited the funds available to invest in early-stage companies. Prices and markets for biofuel are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly. The price of biofuels, as well as the price of conventional petroleum-based fuels and other alternative fuels, is based on global demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Global prices for biodiesel fuel have fluctuated widely in recent years, and we expect that prices will continue to fluctuate. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, results of operations and on our general financial condition. Price fluctuations for biodiesel and other conventional and alternative fuels may also impact the capital markets, and our ability to raise capital. In particular, as prices of petroleum-based fuels decline, the interest in investing in alternative sources of energy, like our biofuel, may decline as well. Future decreases in the price of biodiesel and competing fuels may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. 17 Our financial results are substantially dependent on commodity prices and supplies, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty. Our results of operations, financial position and business outlook are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for vegetable oil, animal fat feedstock, and materials used in producing our biofuel. The prices for these items are quite volatile and could cause our results to fluctuate substantially. We may experience periods of declining prices for our products and increasing costs for our raw materials, which would result in operating losses. Many biofuel companies attempt to hedge a portion of the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into forward contracts to supply vegetable oil or purchase feedstock or other items or by engaging in transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts. These activities involve substantial costs and substantial risks and may be ineffective in mitigating changing commodity prices. We have not entered into any hedging, forward contracts, or similar arrangements and could be at a competitive disadvantage with companies that have entered into successful hedging arrangements. The biofuel industry is subject to significant environmental regulation and may be adversely affected by regulatory and environmental risks. Biofuels businesses are subject to environmental risks and hazards and environmental regulation imposed by a variety of international conventions as well as federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations. Environmental laws restrict and prohibit spills, discharges and emissions of various substances produced in association with biofuel manufacturing operations. Environmental laws also require that manufacturing plants are operated, maintained and closed in such a way that satisfies applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with environmental laws can require significant expenditures and a violation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, as well as potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Compliance with environmental laws may limit production, significantly increase the costs of operations, or otherwise adversely affect results of operations and prospects. To market our fuel for on-road motor vehicle applications in the United States, our biofuel must be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and comply with the EPA’s rigorous emissions, engine durability and health effects regulations. We have not yet applied for such registration. We are evaluating the regulatory requirements for using our fuel in motor vehicle applications in our territory outside the United States. Section 211 of the Clean Air Act generally does not apply to using our biofuel in a stationary source, such as utility power generation applications or institutional or commercial heating fuel, or in certain marine applications. There may, however, be federal or state requirements applicable to emissions from individual furnaces, boilers, and similar equipment. As a practical matter, market acceptance of our biofuel may be limited until we can demonstrate that (i) our biofuel is comparable to conventional fuels from an energy content and emissions perspective, as well as handling and storage perspectives, and (ii) that our biofuel is compatible with existing heating systems or power generation systems and other combustion systems. To date, we have not demonstrated any of the foregoing in such commercially available systems. In addition, certain initial testing indicated that our biofuel may require further development so that its viscosity is more stable under certain conditions. Our business is subject to local legal, political, and economic factors. To the extent we operate our business outside of North America, particularly in Central America and the Caribbean where we have an existing license, we will need to adapt our business to the local legal, political and economic conditions. Certain of these areas are less hospitable to US businesses, and US businesses operating in certain of these areas have been subject at various times to risks from terrorism, military repression, interference with private contract rights, currency fluctuations, inflation, exchange controls, laws or policies affecting environmental issues (including land use and water use), workplace safety, foreign investment, foreign trade, investment or taxation, restrictions imposed on the alternative fuel industry (such as restrictions on production) and price controls and export controls. Any changes in alternative fuel, financial incentives, investment regulations, policies or a shift in political attitudes within our operating area are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business and future financial results. 18 Risks Related to Our Securities Our declining stock price and need to raise additional capital likely could lead to significant dilution in future financing transactions. In light of our need to raise significant amounts of additional capital, coupled with the recent decline in our stock price, we may need to issue large amounts of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock, resulting in significant dilution to our shareholders and causing a reduction in their proportionate ownership and voting power. Under Nasdaq rules, our board of directors has the ability, without seeking shareholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock or convertible preferred stock, aggregating up to 20% of our outstanding common stock, for such consideration as the board of directors may consider sufficient, which may be at a discount to the market price. In addition, we may be required to issue securities that may contain antidilution provisions or other onerous terms that may also result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Some of our recent financing transactions included antidilution provisions that, if triggered, could dilute the ownership interests of our existing common shareholders. Some of our outstanding securities include antidilution provisions that, when triggered, result in the issuance of additional shares that would dilute the interests of existing common stockholders. Our Series B convertible preferred stock and warrants issued in 2008 include antidilution provisions that are triggered if we issue equity in certain capital-raising transactions for a price below the $4.25 conversion price of the Series B preferred stock or the $6.25 exercise price of the warrants within the first to occur of one year from the date of registration of the underlying common stock from the private placement or 18 months from the respective closing dates, March 31, 2008 or May 13, 2008, with a floor of $3.00 per share. Our March 2009 private placement triggered the antidilution provisions of the Series B preferred stock and warrants issued in 2008 and also included certain antidilution provisions that apply if we issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities in a financing transaction within 15 months of the closing date with a purchase price or conversion price less than $0.80 per share or if we issue additional warrants in a financing transaction within the next 15 months with an exercise price less than $0.90 per share, subject to certain caps required by Nasdaq listing rules. These antidilution provisions could be disproportionately dilutive and adversely affect the prevailing market prices of our common stock. The existence of conversion features also may result in short selling of our common stock that may further depress the market price. If we do not meet Nasdaq requirements for continued listing, our common stock may be delisted which could negatively impact our stock’s liquidity. We began trading on Nasdaq on September 23, 2008 after switching our listing from the American Stock Exchange (“Amex”). Under Nasdaq listing rules, our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq if we do not meet certain standards regarding our financial condition and operating results (including, among other factors, maintaining adequate stockholders’ equity, minimum $1.00 bid price and market capitalization), the distribution of our publicly held securities and compliance with Nasdaq listing agreements and SEC rules and regulations. For example, Nasdaq requires a minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million. As of December 31, 2008, our stockholders’ equity was $2.1 million. Given the current extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq has suspended the enforcement of the bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements through April 19, 2009. As a result of this suspension, even if our common stock continues to trade at a bid price below $1.00, we do not expect to receive a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter related to the minimum bid price requirement until the suspension expires. However, if our securities are delisted from Nasdaq, they may be quoted again for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board which may depress demand for our shares and limit market liquidity due to the reluctance or inability of certain investors to buy stocks on the OTC Bulletin Board. Consequently, an investor may find it more difficult to trade our securities. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from Nasdaq could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our common stock is thinly traded and subject to volatility. Although our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq and previously was traded on the Amex, it has traded in relatively small volumes. If our common stock continues to be thinly traded, it may enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a certain quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock. 19 The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile based upon developments in our business or the industry. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile as a result of many factors including, but not limited to: · our announcement of developments, whether positive or negative, with respect to our business, including the viability of our biofuel, new or changes in strategic relationships, and our ability or failure to meet business milestones; · developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; · the announcement of new products or product enhancements by our competitors; · changes in the market for alternative fuels and in commodities used to produce them; · fluctuations in the availability of capital to companies in the early stages; · changes in the social, political and economic climate in the regions in which we operate; and · the impact of sales and trading activity with respect to our common stock in the market. These and other factors are largely beyond our control, and the impact of these risks, individually or in the aggregate, may result in material changes to the market price of our common stock. A significant number of our shares are eligible for sale, and their sale could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. In 2008, we registered a total of 4,770,990 shares of our common stock for resale by non-affiliate selling shareholders, including shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of rights to purchase that are not currently outstanding, which shares are now eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, approximately 4 million shares of our common stock issued in our March 2009 private placement may become eligible for sale in the open market under Rule 144 in September 2009. In general, a person who has held restricted shares for the requisite holding period, upon compliance with Rule 144 procedures, may sell shares into the market. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that the availability of these shares for sale, or the sale of these shares, will have on the market price for our common stock. If the number of shares offered for sale is greater than the number of shares sought to be purchased, then the price of our common stock would decline. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected by future sales of these securities. Our common stock may be considered “a penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. While penny stocks generally are quoted over-the-counter, such as on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the Pink Sheets, they also may trade on securities exchanges. To the extent the market price of our publicly traded common stock is less than $5.00 per share, it may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 