ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Dividend Policy The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors and the reduction or elimination of dividends would negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our board of directors and our board of directors may decide at any time to eliminate or reduce any dividends paid on our common stock. We believe our dividend policy is a significant consideration of many of our stockholders. Any reduction or elimination of dividends or change in our dividend policy could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could further cause your shares of common stock to become less liquid, which may result in losses by you. Even if our board of directors desires to declare and pay dividends, we might not have cash in the future to pay dividends in the intended amounts or at all. Our ability to pay dividends, and our board of directors' determination to maintain our current dividend policy, will depend on numerous factors, including the following: •the state of our business, competition and changes in our industry; •changes in the factors, assumptions and other considerations made by our board of directors in reviewing and revising our dividend policy; •our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources; •our various expected cash needs, including cash interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, the purchase price of acquisitions, incremental costs associated with being a public company, taxes and costs related to litigation, investigations and claims; and •potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. Our actual cash available to pay dividends may not equal or exceed the amount necessary to pay dividends at any time. Over time, our capital and other cash needs will invariably be subject to uncertainties, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the level of any dividends we may pay in the future. In addition, to the extent that we would seek to raise additional cash from additional debt incurrence or equity security issuances, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on reasonable terms or at all. Each of the factors listed above could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy or at all. 14 If our estimates relating to dividends payable in the future change, you may not receive the amount of dividends you expected. If our estimates of cash available to pay dividends in the future were to fall below our prior expectations, our assumptions as to estimated cash needs were to be too low or if other applicable assumptions were to prove incorrect, we may need to: •either reduce or eliminate dividends, which may result in a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock; •fund dividends by incurring additional debt (to the extent we are permitted to do so under the agreements governing our debt), which would increase our leverage and limit our funding alternatives for other uses; •amend the terms of our credit facilities or the indenture governing our senior discount notes to permit us to pay dividends or make other payments if we are otherwise not permitted to do so, which is likely to require us to incur significant costs; •fund dividends from future issuances of equity securities, which could be dilutive to our stockholders and negatively affect the market price of our common stock; •fund dividends from other sources, such as by asset sales or by working capital, which would leave us with less cash available for other purposes; and •reduce other expected uses of cash, such as capital expenditures, which could limit our ability to grow. Our ability to pay dividends will be restricted by agreements governing our debt, including our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes and by Delaware law. Our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes restrict our ability to pay dividends. We refer you to "Long Term Debt and Other Obligations" under Item 7, where we describe the terms of our indebtedness, including provisions limiting our ability to declare and pay dividends. Additionally, under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. If, as a result of these restrictions, we are required to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. This may in turn result in losses by you. Our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities, which may harm our competitive position and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we continue paying dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to consummate acquisitions, and may need to seek financing to fund a material expansion of our business, including any significant acquisitions or to pursue growth opportunities requiring capital expenditures significantly beyond our current expectations. The risks related to funding any dividends, or other cash needs as a result of paying dividends, are summarized in the preceding risk factors. If we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future financial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 15 Risks Relating to Our Business We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may reduce our cash flow and impede our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our indebtedness and operate our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $378.3 million, which represented approximately 73% of our total consolidated capitalization on a book basis. As of December 31, 2007, we also had availability of $54.2 million (net of standby letters of credit of approximately $5.8 million) under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, thus making it more difficult for us to pay dividends on our common stock; •make us more vulnerable to, and reduce our flexibility in planning for, changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; •limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy, or other purposes; and •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt. Any of the above listed factors could make us more vulnerable to defaults and place us at a competitive disadvantage, therefore making an investment in our common stock less attractive when compared to other investments. Further, if we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We could incur more indebtedness, which may increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends on our common stock. The indenture governing our senior discount notes and our credit facilities permit us, under certain circumstances, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. For example, our credit facilities allow us to incur up to an additional $80.0 million of incremental term loans under the credit facility, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness through our revolving credit facility. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our common stock, would increase. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The terms of our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of financial and other restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. For a more complete description of these covenants and restrictions, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Item 7. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our existing and future debt agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our credit facilities could result in a default under such facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders may elect to declare all obligations under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require 16 us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings, any of which would result in an event of default under our senior discount notes. If the debt under our credit facilities or our senior discount notes were to be accelerated, our business operations would be interrupted, which would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Interest under our senior discount notes is currently paid in-kind. Beginning November 1, 2008, the senior discount notes will require the payment of interest in cash semi-annually, beginning May 1, 2009. The annual cash obligation for this interest is $15.8 million. The payment of this interest could limit our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions or make capital expenditures. Our revolving credit facility matures in August 2010, our term loan in August 2012 and our senior discount notes in October 2012. Depending on the state of the credit markets when these obligations become due, we may not be able to refinance these obligations on terms that are as favorable to us as the current arrangements. In particular, current dislocations in the credit markets, which have significantly impacted the availability and pricing of financing, particularly in the high yield debt and leveraged credit markets, may significantly constrain our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness or to obtain waivers of any future defaults under our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes. These developments in the credit markets may have a significant effect on our cost of financing and our liquidity position. Unfavorable outcome of litigation or investigations pending against us could materially impact our business. We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, claims, disputes, litigation and investigations. In particular, the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") is currently conducting an investigation into possible antitrust violations in the packaged ice industry. Putative class actions have also been filed against us and other packaged ice producers alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and related claims. Our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes in any of these or other pending or future litigation or investigation. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation or investigation and the outcome of any such litigation, investigations and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. The seasonal nature of the ice business results in losses and lower margins in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We experience significant seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and profitability. We make a disproportionate amount of our sales in the second and third calendar quarters when the weather is generally warmer, which results in an increased demand for ice. We also earn our net income during these same periods. As a result of seasonal revenue declines and the lack of a corresponding decrease in certain expenses, we experience net losses and materially lower profit margins during the first and fourth calendar quarters. Variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of our cash flows and therefore limit our ability to timely service our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to pay dividends. In addition, because our operating results depend significantly on sales during the second and third calendar quarters, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly if the weather during these periods is cool or rainy. Weather conditions and weather events can decrease our sales or increase our expenses. Cool or rainy weather can decrease sales, while extremely hot weather may increase our expenses, each resulting in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Ice consumers demand ice for a variety of reasons, but many of them buy ice in connection with outdoor related activities, both commercial and recreational. As a result, demand for ice increases during periods of warm, sunny weather, and conversely, demand decreases during periods of cool, rainy weather. During extended periods of cool or rainy weather on a national or regional basis, our revenues and resulting net income 17 may substantially decline. Also, hot weather does not necessarily result in greater net income. During extended periods of hot weather, our profits and cash flow may decline because of an increase in expenses in response to excess demand. We may have to transport ice from one plant to another and, in some cases, purchase ice from third party sources and transport it to a specific market to meet this excess demand, resulting in higher expenses and inconsistent service and product quality. Finally, although extreme weather events such as hurricanes can cause an increase in volume sales, those sales are not necessarily profitable due to added costs and disruptions to our normal service and distribution routes. Our failure to successfully compete in our markets, retain existing customers and obtain new customers could limit our prospects and cause us to lose market share. Our business is highly competitive. We have many competitors in each of our geographic markets offering similar products and services. We also face competitors offering alternative technological solutions to ice production and delivery throughout our markets. Competition in our business is based primarily on service, quality and price. We could lose market share if we fail to successfully compete against our competitors in any of these areas, if our existing competitors expand their capacity, if new entrants successfully penetrate our markets, if we fail to adequately serve our existing base of customers, or if our larger grocery or convenience store customers decide to manufacture their own ice rather than purchase our products. Increases in the prices of electricity, certain raw materials, fuel, insurance and other required expenses could, if we cannot pass those price increases along to our customers, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We use substantial amounts of polyethylene, which is the primary raw material used to manufacture the bags we use to package our ice, electricity in connection with our manufacturing process and fuel to operate the refrigerated trucks for ice delivery. We also carry general liability, workers' compensation, health and vehicle insurance. We have experienced increases in bag costs, fuel costs, electricity costs and insurance costs and may experience further increases in such costs in the future. If the prices for these items or other expenses increase beyond the amounts that we are able to pass along to our customers, our margins and our operating cash flow would decrease. Our acquisitions may not be successfully integrated and could cause unexpected financial or operational difficulties. From 2005 to 2007, we completed a total of 32 acquisitions. We anticipate that we will, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions are also accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. Further, acquisitions are subject to risks associated with the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, any of which could increase the costs of operating our business, negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions or result in the loss of customers. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of contamination. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations, or incidents resulting in environmental releases, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and penalties, third party claims for personal injury, investments to retrofit or upgrade our facilities and programs, or curtailment of our operations. For 18 example, our ice manufacturing and cold storage operations use refrigerants such as ammonia and Freon. Some of our facilities may not be in compliance with certain Freon refrigerant requirements, such as leak detection and repair, recordkeeping or reporting. In addition, the market price of Freon is rising as a result of phase-outs under federal laws, which could significantly increase our operating costs in the future if we are not able to obtain approved substitutes. From time to time, our use of ammonia has resulted in releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in lawsuits or administrative penalties. Material violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, including violations and liabilities incurred by entities which we have acquired, may require us to incur substantial costs which could reduce our margins, or divert resources from ongoing environmental programs and improvements, which could delay our efforts to integrate acquisitions and upgrade our operations, or expose us to risk of further environmental liability. Our business could be disrupted or we could incur substantial costs because of government laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws relating to many aspects of our business, including labeling, sanitation, health and safety and manufacturing processes. We cannot predict the types of government regulations that may be enacted in the future by the various levels of government or how existing or future laws or regulations will be interpreted or enforced. The enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or a stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations may cause a disruption in our operations or require additional expenditures by us, some of which could be material. We may incur material costs and liabilities in order to comply with any such laws and regulations and such costs and liabilities may result in substantial expenses to us and could divert management's time and attention. If we are unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees, our business might be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is high. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct our operations successfully. In particular, uncertainty related to the ongoing antitrust investigation by the DOJ may make attracting qualified personnel more difficult. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of our management team and, in particular, our senior management, William P. Brick, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Steven J. Janusek, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Ben Key, our Executive Vice President-Sales. In addition, we do not carry "key man" life insurance. Our inability to successfully attract and retain personnel or the loss of any member of our management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan. Accidents involving our products and equipment could expose us to increased costs as a result of product liability claims. We are subject to a risk of product liability claims and adverse publicity if a consumer is or claims to be harmed while using our products or equipment. Any such claim may result in negative publicity, loss of revenues or higher costs associated with litigation. We currently carry product liability insurance. However, this insurance may be insufficient to pay for all or a large part of these losses. If our insurance does not adequately cover these losses, our results of operations and cash flow would decrease and such a decrease could be material. 19 We may lose customers' business to competitors as a result of our limited intellectual property protection, including on The Ice Factory. As the sole major ice supplier using an on-site production and delivery system at our customers' retail locations, we have enjoyed a competitive advantage over our competitors. Our proprietary Ice Factory system is preferred by certain of our high volume customers to traditional ice delivery and gives us more flexibility during peak seasons. Competitors sometimes test machines similar to The Ice Factory. Other competitors in the ice vending segment are testing and deploying self-contained units to produce ice at the point of sale. Certain of these competitors have recently had limited success in our markets. If any of our competitors are successful with a signficant rollout of any such system, we could lose business to these companies, which would result in decreased cash flows and results of operations. It is our practice to protect certain of our proprietary materials and processes by relying on trade secrets laws and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements. Confidentiality or trade secrets may not be maintained and others may independently develop or obtain access to such materials or processes, which could adversely affect our competitive position and ability to differentiate our products and services from our competitors' offerings. Limitations on our ability to utilize our tax assets before they expire may negatively affect financial results and the ability to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2007, we had net operating loss carry-forwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $77 million, of which approximately $38 million were generated prior to August 15, 2003. There are annual limitations on the utilization of the $38 million portion of the net operating loss carry-forwards due to changes in ownership on and prior to August 15, 2003. Further, since at the closing of our initial public offering on August 12, 2005 our prior equity investors ceased to own a majority of our common stock, new limitations apply to the approximately $39 million of net operating loss carry-forwards that were generated from August 15, 2003 to August 12, 2005 and additional limitations apply to the net operating loss carry-forwards generated prior to August 15, 2003. If we are not able to utilize our tax assets in the manner or in the timeframe we anticipate, our future after-tax cash flow available for payment of dividends on our common stock will be reduced. Any significant reduction in goodwill and other intangible assets would have an adverse effect on the value of our business. Our acquisitions have resulted in significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, and intangible assets totaled approximately $308.3 million at December 31, 2007, representing approximately 51% of our total assets. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business, and a variety of other circumstances. During 2006, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $3.3 million to goodwill in our bottled water operation as a result of a significant reduction in bottled water sales volumes related to a particular customer. During 2005, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $5.7 million to goodwill in our cold storage operations as a result of a significant reduction in cold storage sales volumes related to a particular customer. The amount of these and any future impairments must be charged to earnings. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of the goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet would have an adverse effect on the value of our business. 20 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market for our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decrease. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell our common stock held by you at or above the price you paid for it. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, such as period-to-period fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results, sales of our common stock by our existing equity investors, failure to pay dividends at anticipated levels, developments in our industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts, failure to meet financial estimates by analysts, competitive factors, general economic and securities market conditions and other external factors. Also, securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic or market conditions, and market conditions affecting the stock of companies in our industry in particular, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. Limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to its price volatility. For the year ended 2007, the average daily trading volume for our common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was approximately 184,000 shares and the median daily trading volume was approximately 134,000 shares. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. If our share price is volatile, we may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company's securities, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. If the market value of our common stock experiences adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management's attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. We are a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiary, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt service and other obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiary. We do not have, apart from our ownership of our subsidiary, any independent operations. As a result, we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiary to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiary to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on our operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the covenants that are contained in our credit facilities and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiary incur. In addition, because we are a holding company, claims by our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our subsidiary, including obligations under our credit facilities. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiary will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our subsidiary's liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. 21 Provisions of our charter documents and the DGCL may inhibit a takeover, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents and the corporation laws of the state in which we are incorporated could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. Our board of directors could therefore authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could dilute the voting power or diminish other rights of holders of our common stock. Additional provisions are included in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions, including: •the sole power of a majority of the board of directors to fix the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the board of directors; •requirements for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals; and •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent and restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 