ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Chapter 11 cases and the Plan of Reorganization The commencement of a Chapter 11 cases for the purposes of implementing the Plan of Reorganization may result in a number of adverse consequences. The Chapter 11 environment may adversely affect our business. We are engaged in manufacturing and distributing packaged ice and providing related services to customers. Although we intend to continue to provide such products and services to our customers in the normal course, there can be no assurances that counterparties will continue to conduct business with us while we are in Chapter 11. The failure to provide these products and services will result in material losses. If the Company receives the requisite votes to accept the Plan of Reorganization, there can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will confirm the Plan of Reorganization. Although we may obtain the requisite votes to accept the Plan of Reorganization, there can be no assurance that parties will not seek to oppose confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization or that the Bankruptcy Court may otherwise decline to confirm the Plan of Reorganization. If the Plan of Reorganization is confirmed, there can be no assurance that the effective date of the Plan of Reorganization will occur. Although we believe that the effective date of the Plan of Reorganization will occur reasonably soon after the Bankruptcy Court enters a confirmation order on the docket of the Bankruptcy Cases, there can be no assurance as to such timing or as to whether it will occur. There can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will approve the classification scheme in the Plan of Reorganization. The Bankruptcy Court, which sits as a court of equity, may exercise substantial discretion in connection with the Plan of Reorganization. Section 1122 of the Bankruptcy Code requires that the Plan of Reorganization classify claims against, and interests in, us. The Bankruptcy Code also provides that the Plan of Reorganization may place a claim or interest in a particular class only if such claim or interest is substantially similar to the other claims or interests of such class. We believe that all claims and interests have been appropriately classified in the Plan of Reorganization. There can be no 21 Table of Contents assurance, however, that the Bankruptcy Court will conclude that such claims and interests are properly classified in the Plan of Reorganization. In the event that we are unable to reduce our indebtedness through the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to complete the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization, we may need to seek bankruptcy protection without the benefit of a plan supported by major creditors. We cannot guarantee that we can generate sufficient cash flow to continue to meet our obligations in the future, and if we cannot do so, we will not be able to continue as a going concern. The Plan of Reorganization and the related transactions, which contemplate transactions that will modify our capital structure and the structure and operation of our businesses, are based in large part upon assumptions and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, our plan may be unsuccessful in its execution and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. The Plan of Reorganization and the transactions related thereto, which contemplate transactions that will affect both our capital structure and the structure and operation of our businesses, are based upon assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we consider appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) our ability to obtain adequate liquidity and financing sources and establish an appropriate level of debt, including our ability to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization; (ii) our ability to restore customers' confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient customers; (iii) our ability to retain key employees in those businesses that we intend to continue to emphasize; and (iv) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions, both in the United States and in global markets. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful execution of the restructuring of our businesses. In addition, the Plan of Reorganization and the transactions contemplated thereby rely upon financial forecasts, including with respect to revenue growth, improved earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, improved interest margins, and growth in cash flow. Financial forecasts are necessarily speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. Accordingly, we expect that our actual financial condition and results of operations will differ, perhaps materially, from what we have anticipated. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization and the transactions contemplated thereby will occur or, even if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on us and our subsidiaries or our businesses or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization. Our operations will be subject to the uncertainties of the bankruptcy process. While our voluntary refinancing plan has been approved by a substantial portion of our creditors and we expect to complete the filing process expeditiously, negative events or publicity associated with our process and events during the proceedings could adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors or employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Further, our ability to obtain court approval of routine motions that will allow us to operate our business normally is not within our control. The voluntary refinancing plan is also subject to certain closing conditions, all of which must be satisfied in order for us to emerge from the Chapter 11 22 Table of Contents process. There can be no assurance that the Restructuring will be consummated on the terms described herein, or at all. The strategic acquisition opportunity may not be successful. On March 28, 2012, we submitted a non-binding letter of intent to Arctic Glacier Income Fund related to our interest in acquiring substantially all of Arctic's business and assets. On April 5, 2012, we were advised by the financial adviser to Arctic that we were approved to move to phase 2 of the SISP. The successful bidder will be selected at the end of phase 2 of the SISP. There can be no assurance that our bid will be successful, or, if so, that we will be able to meet the conditions and timelines of Arctic's SISP, and any final bid is subject to, among other things, completion of due diligence, negotiation of transaction documents and financing commitments. In the event that we do not acquire Arctic, we will not realize the benefits we hope to achieve from the Arctic acquisition. Risks Related to Our Business We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may reduce our cash flow and impede our ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our indebtedness, operate our business and pay dividends on our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $471.5 million, which represented approximately 126% of our total consolidated capitalization on a book basis. As of December 31, 2011, we also had availability of $29.3 million under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt; •make us more vulnerable to, and reduce our flexibility in planning for, changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; •limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy, or other purposes; and •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt. Any of the above listed factors could make us more vulnerable to defaults and place us at a competitive disadvantage, therefore making an investment in our common stock less attractive when compared to other investments. Further, if we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we would need to restructure all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the indentures governing the first lien notes, the second lien notes, and our revolving credit facility do not limit Reddy Holdings' ability to incur additional indebtedness. The terms of the indentures governing the first lien notes, the second lien notes, and our revolving credit facility limit, but do not prohibit, Reddy Corp from incurring additional indebtedness. In addition, the indentures and our revolving credit facility allow us to issue additional first lien notes and second lien notes under certain circumstances. Such additional notes will also be guaranteed by 23 Table of Contents Reddy Holdings and will share in the collateral that secures the first lien notes, the second lien notes and the revolving credit facility. The indentures and our revolving credit facility also allow Reddy Corp to incur certain other additional secured debt and allow any future foreign subsidiaries to incur additional debt. In addition, the indentures and our revolving credit facility do not prevent Reddy Corp from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. If we incur new debt or other liabilities, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our credit facility and the indentures governing the first lien notes and the second lien notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our future subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. The agreements that govern the terms of our debt, including the indentures that govern the first lien notes and the second lien notes and our revolving credit facility, impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •incur liens; •make investments and sell assets; •pay dividends and make other distributions; •purchase our stock; •engage in business activities unrelated to our current business; •enter into transactions with affiliates; or •consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, under our revolving credit facility we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our revolving credit facility, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If more than $10.0 million of indebtedness is outstanding under our revolving credit facility at the time of any such acceleration, an event of default will occur under the indentures governing the first lien notes and the second lien notes. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable immediately and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to restructure, such debt. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our payment obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to restructure our debt obligations depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business and economic conditions and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industry in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and to meet our other obligations. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our revolving credit facility and the indentures relating to the first lien notes and the second lien notes, may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. Litigation and investigations pending against us could materially impact our business and results of operations. We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, claims, disputes, litigation and investigations. In particular, various state attorneys general are conducting civil investigations into possible antitrust violations in the packaged ice industry. Numerous putative class actions have also been filed against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and other packaged ice producers alleging violations of Federal and state antitrust laws and related claims. Class actions have also been filed alleging violations of Federal securities laws. Investigating these matters and responding to the government investigations and related civil litigation involve substantial expense to us, which had and could continue to have a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations, and may distract and disrupt our business. We have reached settlements with our insurance carriers regarding these matters and do not anticipate any further insurance recoveries to fund these expenses. In addition, our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes in any of these or other pending or future litigation or investigations. We may be required to pay substantial amounts as damages and costs in the civil litigation as a result of an unfavorable determination by a court or jury. We could also pay substantial amounts in settlement of some or all of the civil claims and investigations. In addition, our ability to do business with the government may be negatively impacted by an unfavorable outcome of the civil investigations. Our ability to complete potential acquisitions may also be negatively impacted by antitrust investigations and litigation in the packaged ice industry. Our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements may also be adversely affected by the costs of such investigations and litigation as well as any unfavorable outcomes in these or other pending or future litigation or investigations. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation or investigation and the outcome of any such litigation, investigations and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties. There also exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. The seasonal nature of the ice business results in losses and lower margins in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We experience significant seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and profitability. We make a disproportionate amount of our sales in the second and third calendar quarters when the weather is generally warmer, which results in an increased demand for ice. We also earn any net income during these same periods. As a result of seasonal revenue declines and the lack of a corresponding decrease in certain expenses, we experience net losses and materially lower profit margins during the first and 25 Table of Contents fourth calendar quarters. Variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of our cash flows and therefore limit our ability to timely service our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, our ability to pay dividends and our ability to incur capital expenditures. In addition, because our operating results depend significantly on sales during the second and third calendar quarters, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly if the weather during these periods is cool or rainy. Our revenues and sales volumes may be negatively impacted by macroeconomic factors outside of our control. We believe end users of our products use packaged ice in many applications, including recreational activities, the construction industry, agriculture and special events. In the past three years multiple segments of the United States economy, including housing and construction and the credit markets, have deteriorated. Our revenues, sales volumes and profits have declined as a result of this deterioration and our revenues, sales volumes and profits may continue to decline as activity by commercial end users of our products declines. Furthermore, weakness in the national economy combined with other factors including inflation, interest rate fluctuations, increases in fuel and other energy costs and healthcare costs and the availability of financing, including mortgages and consumer credit, may negatively impact consumer confidence and result in changes to consumer spending patterns. If consumer or commercial activities associated with the use of our products decline, our revenues, sales volumes, profits and cash flows may decline. Weather conditions and weather events can decrease our sales or increase our expenses. Cool or rainy weather can decrease sales, while extremely hot weather may increase our expenses, each resulting in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Ice consumers demand ice for a variety of reasons, but many of them buy ice in connection with outdoor related activities, both commercial and recreational. As a result, demand for ice increases during periods of warm, sunny weather, and conversely, demand decreases during periods of cool, rainy weather. During extended periods of cool or rainy weather on a national or regional basis, our revenues and resulting net income may substantially decline. Also, hot weather does not necessarily result in greater net income. During extended periods of hot weather, our profits and cash flow may decline because of an increase in expenses in response to excess demand. We may have to transport ice from one plant to another and, in some cases, purchase ice from third party sources and transport it to a specific market to meet this excess demand, resulting in higher expenses and inconsistent service and product quality. Finally, although extreme weather events such as hurricanes can cause an increase in volume sales, those sales are not necessarily profitable due to added costs and disruptions to our normal service and distribution routes. Implementation of our business strategy will require substantial capital investments; failure to obtain sufficient capital resources could limit our prospects, adversely affecting our results of operations and cause us to lose market share. We have developed a strategic vision to become our customers' "Total Ice Solution." Implementation of this strategic vision will require substantial capital resources to make investments in our infrastructure, manufacture and install additional ISB systems and invest in the ice machine subscription business. We may be unable to obtain access to sufficient capital to implement any or all of these initiatives. If we fail to successfully implement our strategic plan, our business will not grow as we intend, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we may be unable to repay our debt. 26 Table of Contents Our failure to successfully compete in our markets, retain existing customers and obtain new customers could limit our prospects and cause us to lose market share. Our business is highly competitive. We have many competitors in each of our geographic markets offering similar products and services. We also face competitors offering alternative technological solutions to ice production and delivery throughout our markets, including ice vending. Competition in our business is based primarily on service, quality and price. We could lose market share if we fail to successfully compete against our competitors in any of these areas, if our existing competitors expand their capacity, if new entrants successfully penetrate our markets, if we fail to adequately serve our existing base of customers, or if our larger mass merchant, grocery or convenience store customers decide to manufacture their own ice rather than purchase our products. Increases in the prices of electricity, certain raw materials, fuel, insurance and other required expenses could, if we cannot pass those price increases along to our customers, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We use substantial amounts of polyethylene, which is the primary raw material used to manufacture the bags we use to package our ice, electricity in connection with our manufacturing process and fuel to operate the refrigerated trucks for ice delivery. We use approximately 5 million gallons of diesel and gasoline an annual basis. A one dollar change in the price of crude oil translates into an approximately two cents change in the price per gallon of fuel or $0.1 million on an annual basis. We also carry general liability, workers' compensation, health and vehicle insurance. We have experienced increases in bag, fuel, electricity and insurance costs in the past and may experience increases in such costs in the future. If the prices for these items or other expenses increase beyond the amounts that we are able to pass along to our customers, our margins and our operating cash flow would decrease. Our acquisitions may not be successfully integrated and could cause unexpected financial or operational difficulties; failure to make acquisitions may limit our growth. From 2003 through March 2012, we completed a total of 78 acquisitions. We expect to continue to acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions are also accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. Further, acquisitions are subject to risks associated with the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, any of which could increase the costs of operating our business, negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions or result in the loss of customers. We may also incur substantial costs in connection with the pursuit of acquisitions which are not ultimately consummated. We are continuing to evaluate acquisition opportunities as part of our ongoing acquisition strategy. These opportunities will be evaluated in light of the availability of capital resources, which may be constrained. A substantial portion of the historical growth in our business has been as a result of acquisitions. If the size and number of our future acquisitions decreases from our historical trend, our business may not grow as rapidly, or at all, as compared to historical periods. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of contamination. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations, or incidents resulting in environmental releases, could cause us to incur 27 Table of Contents substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and penalties, third party claims for personal injury, investments to retrofit or upgrade our facilities and programs, or curtailment of our operations. For example, our ice manufacturing and distribution operations use refrigerants such as ammonia and Freon. Some of our facilities may not be in compliance with certain Freon refrigerant requirements, such as leak detection and repair, recordkeeping or reporting. In addition, the market price of Freon is rising as a result of phase-outs under federal laws, which could significantly increase our operating costs in the future if we are not able to obtain approved substitutes. From time to time, our use of ammonia has resulted in releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in lawsuits or administrative penalties. Material violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, including violations and liabilities incurred by entities which we have acquired, may require us to incur substantial costs which could reduce our margins, or divert resources from ongoing environmental programs and improvements, which could delay our efforts to integrate acquisitions and upgrade our operations, or expose us to risk of further environmental liability. Our business could be disrupted or we could incur substantial costs because of government laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws relating to many aspects of our business, including labeling, sanitation, health and safety and manufacturing processes. We cannot predict the types of government regulations that may be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be interpreted or enforced. The enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or a stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations may cause a disruption in our operations or require additional expenditures by us, some of which could be material. We may incur material costs and liabilities in order to comply with any such laws and regulations and such costs and liabilities may result in substantial expenses to us and could divert management's time and attention. If we are unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees, our business might be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is high. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of our management team and, in particular, our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, and Chief Customer Officer. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct our operations successfully. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting suitable candidates for other positions that are or may need to be filled. In particular, uncertainty related to the ongoing antitrust investigations and related civil litigation may make attracting qualified personnel more difficult and may make it more difficult to retain our existing management team. Our inability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel or the loss of any member of our management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, we do not carry "key man" life insurance which would mitigate the impact of any such impairment. Accidents involving our products and equipment could expose us to increased costs as a result of product liability claims. We are subject to a risk of product liability claims and adverse publicity if a consumer is or claims to be harmed while using our products or equipment. Any such claim may result in negative publicity, loss of revenues or higher costs associated with litigation. 28 Table of Contents We currently carry product liability insurance. However, this insurance may be insufficient to pay for all or a large part of these losses. If our insurance does not adequately cover these losses, our results of operations and cash flow would decrease and such a decrease could be material. We may lose customers' business to competitors as a result of our limited intellectual property protection, including on The Ice Factory. As the major ice supplier with the most widely deployed on-site production and delivery system at our customers' retail locations, we have enjoyed a competitive advantage over our competitors. Our proprietary ISB system is preferred by certain of our high volume customers to traditional ice delivery and gives us more flexibility during peak seasons. However, our intellectual property rights are limited in scope and value, and certain of our patents are set to expire at various dates from 2012 through 2026. Competitors sometimes test and deploy machines similar to our ISB system. Certain competitors had some success in rolling out such systems in certain of our markets, resulting in loss of business to these competitors. If any of our competitors are successful with a significant rollout of any such systems, we could lose business to these companies, which would result in decreased cash flows and results of operations. Other competitors in the ice vending segment are testing and deploying self-contained units to produce ice at the point of sale. Certain of these competitors have had limited success in our markets. It is our practice to protect certain of our proprietary materials and processes by relying on trade secret laws and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements. Confidentiality or trade secrets may not be maintained and others may independently develop or obtain access to such materials or processes, which could adversely affect our competitive position and ability to differentiate our products and services from our competitors' offerings. Limitations on our ability to utilize our tax assets before they expire may negatively affect financial results and the ability to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2011, we had net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $203.0 million, of which approximately $21.2 million were generated prior to August 15, 2003. There are annual limitations on the utilization of the $21.2 million portion of the net operating loss carryforwards due to changes in ownership on and prior to August 15, 2003. Further, since at the closing of our initial public offering on August 12, 2005 our prior equity investors ceased to own a majority of our common stock, new limitations apply to the approximately $32.6 million of net operating loss carry-forwards that were generated from August 15, 2003 to August 12, 2005 and additional limitations apply to the net operating loss carry-forwards generated prior to August 15, 2003. If we are not able to utilize our tax assets in the manner or in the timeframe we anticipate, our future after-tax cash flow will be reduced. We do not have written customer agreements with most of our customers, which could lead to unexpected customer loss and adversely affect our business. As is customary in our industry, we do not have written agreements with most our customers, although recent trends indicate that written agreements with larger national accounts are becoming more prevalent. As a result, most of our customers can terminate their relationship with us at any time without notice or penalty. In addition, even if our customers should decide to continue their relationship with us, there can be no guarantee that our customers will purchase the same amount of our products as in the past, or that purchases will be on similar terms. Any loss of a significant customer, change in the terms of the relationship with a significant customer or a material decrease in the amount of products purchased by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents The expansion of our ISB and ice machine subscription businesses may not provide expected returns, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our strategic vision calls for, among other things, expansion of our ISB and ice machine subscription businesses. Proper site selection is critical to achieving the required financial return on an ISB system to support the upfront capital expenditures required to build and place each ISB system. If we fail to properly select sites for additional ISB systems, if the costs of operating and maintaining those systems exceed our expectations or if we fail to obtain sufficient pricing from our customers to support those systems, we would not achieve our expected returns on our investments in additional ISB systems and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have limited experience in the ice machine subscription business. Expansion of that business will require capital investments and may involve unforeseen risks. Failure to achieve our anticipated results in the ice machine subscription business could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may decline as a result of our Chapter 11 filing. As of March 30, 2012, we had approximately 24.0 million of common stock shares outstanding. The price of our common stock could be adversely affected by our decision to commence a Chapter 11 filing, due to the potential negative impacts of a filing as well as the potential dilutive impact on, or elimination of, existing shares of common stock as a result of restructuring. The limited trading market for our common stock results in limited liquidity for shares of our common stock and significant volatility in our stock price. Although prices for our shares of common stock are quoted on the OTC electronic interdealer quotation system ("OTCBB"), there is little current trading and no assurance can be given that an active public trading market will develop or, if developed, that it will be sustained. The OTCBB is generally regarded as a less efficient and less prestigious trading market than other national markets. There is no assurance if or when our common stock will be quoted on another more prestigious exchange or market. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders. The absence of an active trading market reduces the liquidity of our common stock. The market price of our stock is likely to be highly volatile because for some time there will likely be a thin trading market for the stock, which causes trades of small blocks of stock to have a significant impact on our stock price. As a result of the lack of trading activity, the quoted price for our common stock on the OTCBB is not necessarily a reliable indicator of its fair market value. Further, if we cease to be quoted, holders of our common stock would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and the market value of our common stock would likely decline. Trading in our common stock will be subject to regulatory restrictions since our common stock is considered a "penny stock". Our common stock is currently, and in the near future will likely continue to be, considered a "penny stock." The Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks." Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume 30 Table of Contents information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rule requires a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and any salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosures and other requirements may adversely affect the trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock. The market for our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decrease. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell our common stock held by you at or above the price you paid for it. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, such as period-to-period fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results, developments in litigation and investigations impacting us, sales of our common stock by our existing equity investors, developments in our industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts, failure to meet financial estimates by analysts, competitive factors, general economic and securities market conditions and other external factors. Also, securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic or market conditions, and market conditions affecting the stock of companies in our industry in particular, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. If our share price is volatile, we may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company's securities, security holders have instituted class action litigation. We are currently the subject of securities class actions and stockholder derivative actions. This type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, can result in substantial legal costs and the diversion of our management's attention from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. We are a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiary, we will be unable to meet our debt service and other obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiary. We do not have, apart from our ownership of our subsidiary, any independent operations. As a result, we will rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiary to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiary to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on our operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the covenants that are contained in our indentures and our revolving credit facility and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiary incur. In addition, because we are a holding company, claims by our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our subsidiary, including obligations under our indentures and our revolving credit facility. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our 31 Table of Contents subsidiary will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our subsidiary's liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. Provisions of our charter documents and the DGCL may inhibit a takeover, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents and the corporation laws of the state in which we are incorporated could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors could therefore authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could dilute the voting power or diminish other rights of holders of our common stock. Additional provisions are included in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions, including: •the sole power of a majority of the Board of Directors to fix the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors; •requirements for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals; and •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent and restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("DGCL") prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our common stock. On September 15, 2008, our Board of Directors amended our prior dividend policy and suspended our quarterly cash dividends indefinitely. No dividends have been declared for any period after July 1, 2008. The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. Changes in our dividend policy may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could further cause your shares of common stock to become less liquid, which may result in losses by you. 32 Table of Contents Even if our Board of Directors desires to declare and pay dividends, we might not have cash in the future to pay dividends in the intended amounts or at all or we may be contractually or legally prohibited from paying dividends. Our ability to pay dividends, and our Board of Directors' determination to declare any future dividends, will depend on numerous factors, including the following: •the state of our business, competition and changes in our industry; •changes in the factors, assumptions and other considerations made by our Board of Directors in reviewing and revising whether to declare any future dividends; •our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources; •our various expected cash needs, including cash interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, the purchase price of acquisitions, incremental costs associated with being a public company and taxes; •our ability to maintain compliance with covenants in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness; •costs and expenses related to litigation, investigations and claims, including the ongoing antitrust investigations and related litigation; and •potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. Our actual cash available to pay dividends may not equal or exceed the amount necessary to pay dividends at any time. Over time, our capital and other cash needs will invariably be subject to uncertainties, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the level of any dividends we may pay in the future. In addition, to the extent that we would seek to raise additional cash from additional debt incurrence or equity security issuances, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on reasonable terms or at all. Each of the factors listed above could negatively affect our ability to pay any future dividends. In addition, our revolving credit facility and our indentures restrict our ability to pay dividends. We refer you to "Debt and Other Obligations" under Item 7, where we describe the terms of our indebtedness, including provisions limiting our ability to declare and pay dividends. Also, under the DGCL, our Board of Directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. These restrictions may limit the dividends we are permitted to pay, or prohibit the payment of dividends entirely. We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. We are required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on our assessment in 2011, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective controls, including monitoring with respect to the accuracy, valuation, completeness, and existence of ice merchandiser equipment and other equipment and machinery. Although we made significant improvements to our processes during 2011 and are nearing completion of our remediation efforts, this control failure constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. (see Item 9A of Part II, "Controls and Procedures"). 33 Table of Contents The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB") defines a material weakness as a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we are unable to correct the identified deficiencies in our internal control in a timely manner, or if we identify other material weaknesses or deficiencies in the future, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC could be adversely affected. This failure could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, negatively affect the market price of our common stock, subject us to investigations and penalties, or otherwise adversely impact our business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 