ITEM 1A. Risk factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should know that many of the risks described may apply to more than just the subsection in which we grouped them for the purpose of this presentation. As a result, you should consider all of the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with a limited operating history, which makes us a speculative investment. We are a development stage company that seeks to take advantage of our exclusive licensing rights to proprietary technology to manufacture biofuel that we acquired in early 2006. Since then, we have been engaged in organizational activities, including developing a strategic operating plan and entering into contracts with strategic partners and potential customers. We currently have seven employees, consisting of our seven executives. Other than limited testing activities with respect to our biofuel and the recent opening of a pilot production facility, we have not conducted any operations and have not generated any revenues. Accordingly, we have limited relevant operating history upon which you can evaluate our performance and prospects. You should consider our prospects in light of the inherent risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in the early stage of development, particularly companies in new and evolving markets such as the renewable fuels industry. Such risks include technology risks, capital requirements, risk of the market not accepting our products, failure to establish business relationships, competitive disadvantages against larger and more established companies and regulatory matters. We will need additional financing for our business plan. As of December 31, 2007, we have incurred a net loss of $14 million and negative cash flows from operating activities of $5.4 million since inception. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1.6 million of available cash and approximately $635,000 of accounts payable and accrued expenses. In addition, under the license agreement with the inventor of our proprietary technology, we are required to pay $850,000 upon the completion of our next round of financing that exceeds $850,000 and an additional $1.0 million per year over the next six years. We have financed our operations to date primarily through the sale of our common stock, preferred stock and warrants in privately-negotiated transactions with accredited investors, including a recently-completed offering of Series B preferred stock and warrants. Although we believe have sufficient capital to fund our budget for the remainder of the year, we will need additional financing after that time to pursue our business plan, and we expect to seek additional capital to be able to increase our expenditures above our existing budget. Future capital requirements could vary significantly and will depend on certain factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include the ongoing development and testing of our proprietary technology, the nature and timing of licensing and sublicensing activities, plant construction, commencement of sales, hiring qualified management and employees, responding to competitive pressures, regulatory requirements, and available financing. Because of our continuing need to raise additional capital, we are likely to seek additional financing on an opportunistic basis whenever we believe there is a suitable opportunity to do so. Any needed financing may not be available on acceptable terms. In addition, future equity financings, if any, could be dilutive to existing shareholders. If additional financing is not available when needed, you may lose your entire investment in our company. 9 If we cannot make the required payments under our license agreement for our proprietary technology, the inventor may be able to terminate the agreement, which could preclude us from selling our biofuel. We have substantial near-term obligations under the license agreement with the inventor of our proprietary technology. Specifically, as of March 27, 2008, we are required to pay Mr. Petrucci $850,000 upon the closing of our next financing that exceeds $850,000 and an additional $1.0 million in cash per year for the next six years, for a total of $6,850,000 in remaining payments. To the extent we default on any of these payments or breach any other material provisions of our license, the inventor could terminate the agreement, which is our principal asset. The license agreement also provides that the inventor may terminate the agreement if an insolvency or bankruptcy petition is filed against us and is not dismissed within 90 days. Our ability to produce and distribute commercially viable biofuel is unproven, and until we can prove our technology, we likely will not be able to generate or sustain revenues. While producing biofuel from vegetable oils or animal fats is not a new technology, the technologies we are pursuing for our biofuel production have never been utilized on a commercial basis. The biofuel, while intended as a new class of biofuel for power generation, heavy equipment, marine use and as a heating fuel, may never achieve technical or commercial viability. All of the tests conducted to date by us with respect to our technology have been performed in a limited scale environment, and the same or similar results may not be obtainable at competitive costs on a large-scale commercial basis. In 2007, we completed three successful test burns at a Dynegy power generation facility and in 2008 we completed one successful test burn at a Mirant Energy power generation facility. However, others may need to replicate these successes before our biofuel becomes commercially acceptable. We have never utilized our technology under the conditions or in the volumes that will be required for us to be profitable and cannot predict all of the difficulties that may arise. Our technology may require further research, development, regulatory approvals, environmental permits, design and testing prior to commercialization. Accordingly, our technology and our biofuel may not perform successfully on a commercial basis and may never generate any revenues or be profitable. We likely will not be able to generate significant revenues until we can successfully operate manufacturing facilities and commence commercial sales. We have not generated any revenues, and we do not expect to generate any material revenues until after we or any sublicensees have successfully operated biofuel manufacturing plants and commenced commercial sales, which we do not currently anticipate to occur until at least the middle of 2008. We recently announced that we placed into service our first biofuel production plant, a 3 million gallon per year pilot facility, jointly developed with Twin Rivers, and we have previously disclosed that we are working on a 25 million gallon per year facility with Twin Rivers. Revenue generation likely would be delayed by any of the following: · delays in demonstrating the technological advantages or commercial viability of our proposed products, · adverse changes in our strategic relationships such as that with Twin Rivers, · problems with the pilot or subsequent production plants, including technical, staffing, permitting or other operational issues, · inability to interest early adopter customers in our products, and 10 · inability to obtain cost effective supplies of vegetable oil and feedstocks. Any planned manufacturing plants may not achieve projected capacity or efficiency, and we may not be able to sell the biofuel generated at these plants at a price that will cover our costs. Potential customers may require lengthy or complex trials or long sampling periods before committing to significant orders for our products. We may not be able to generate revenues from sublicensing our technology. Our exclusive perpetual license allows us to sublicense our proprietary technology in North America, Central America and the Caribbean, and our business plan includes, as a second potential revenue stream, the collection of royalties through sublicensing our proprietary technology. To date, we do not have any revenues from sublicenses and have only entered into one sublicense, with Xethanol, that we considered terminating in 2007. There can be no assurance that Xethanol will be able to perform its obligations under the sublicense. We likely will need to prove the viability of our technology before we can obtain any additional sublicense agreements, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Companies to which we grant sublicenses may not be able to produce, market and sell enough biofuel to pay us royalty fees or they may default on the payment of royalties. We may not be able to achieve profitable operations from collecting royalties from the sublicensing of our proprietary technology. The strategic relationships upon which we may rely are subject to change. Our ability to successfully test our technology, to develop and operate manufacturing plants and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with customers or sublicensees will depend on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants. These relationships will need to change and evolve over time, as we enter different phases of development. Our strategic relationships most often are not yet reflected in definitive agreements, or the agreements we have do not cover all aspects of the relationship. Our success in this area also will depend on our ability to select and evaluate new strategic relationships and to consummate transactions. Our inability to identify suitable companies or enter into and maintain strategic relationships may impair our ability to grow. The terms of relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to incur or undertake in order to maintain these relationships. Moreover, reliance upon strategic partners to manufacture and sell biofuel subjects us to additional risks, including a limited ability to control the quality of such fuel and the failure of such partners to perform in accordance with the terms of agreements that they may enter into with us. Arrangements we enter into with such partners may compete with any biofuel that we may manufacture at our own plants and therefore may limit our organic growth. We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive alternative fuels market. We compete with petroleum-based fuels and with other alternative fuels like biodiesel in our potential markets. Currently, the cost of producing most alternative fuels forces manufacturers to operate at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to petroleum-based fuels. Producers of alternative fuels generally depend upon government support, including tax credits and various incentives, and upon the willingness of customers to pay a premium for cleaner burning, renewable non-petroleum fuels. Within the alternative fuels market, the manufacture, marketing and sale of biofuels (such as bio-diesel) and other alternative fuels is highly competitive. According to the National Bio-diesel Board (NBB), as of January 31, 2007, there were at least 105 companies that were engaged in developing, manufacturing and marketing bio-diesel fuel, with current production capacity estimated at 1.5 billion gallons per year. In addition, the NBB estimates that biodiesel demand in the United States was approximately 450 million gallons per year in 2007. The NBB further estimates that another 1.7 billion gallons of annual plant capacity are under development. Such competition could be intense and could drive up the costs of feedstock, plant construction, attracting and retaining qualified engineers, chemists and other key employees, as well as other operating expenses. Additionally, new companies are constantly entering the market. This growth and fragmentation could negatively impact us or our sublicensees’ ability to obtain additional capital from investors. Larger companies which have been engaged in this business for substantially longer periods of time may have access to greater financial and other resources. These companies may have greater success in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and in fuel manufacturing and marketing, which may give them a competitive advantage. 11 Because our bio-fuel is not biodiesel, we are not eligible for the tax credits for biodiesel, agri-biodiesel and renewable diesel found in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and tax credits we are eligible for are scheduled to expire in 2009. Unless extended or amended, the current credits for biodiesel, agri-biodiesel and renewable diesel found in the Code will expire on December 31, 2008. We have recently commenced an effort to obtain a change in the Code’s definition of biodiesel so that it would include our bio-fuel, and to have the benefit of such a change extend beyond the current expiration date of December 31, 2008. We anticipate, however, that this effort will likely be subject to numerous obstacles and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. Our biofuel meets the definition of “alternative fuel” eligible under the Code for a 50 cent per gallon credit when mixed with diesel, kerosene or other taxable fuel and sold at the retail level. Unless extended by Congress, however, this credit will expire on September 30, 2009. In order to position ourselves for tax credit qualification, we have obtained the necessary registration from the Internal Revenue Service. Our business depends on proprietary technology that we may not be able to protect and may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our success will depend, in large part, on our technology’s commercial viability and on the strength of our intellectual property rights. Much of the technology presently consists only of trade secret rights, which are difficult to protect. If others gain access to the trade secrets relating to our technology, including through analysis or “reverse engineering” of the additives or biofuel made with the technology, they may able to develop substantially equivalent technology. Although we filed patent applications on behalf of the inventor to protect our technology, there can be no assurance that we ultimately will receive patent protection or that any protection that is obtained will be broad enough to be effective in protecting our technology against claims or actions by competitors. Further, any patents that are obtained may not withstand challenges as to validity and enforceability. Third parties may assert that the technology, or the products we or our sub-licensees commercialize using the technology, infringes upon their proprietary rights. We have yet to complete an infringement analysis and, even if such an analysis were available at the current time, we could not be certain that no infringement exists, particularly as our products have not yet been fully developed. We may need to acquire additional licenses from third parties in order to avoid infringement claims, and any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent infringement claims are made, we could incur substantial costs in the resulting litigation, and the existence of this type of litigation could impede the development of our business. Xethanol owns a significant portion of our common stock and may delay, defer or prevent us from taking actions that would be beneficial to our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, Xethanol owned approximately 32.2% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Xethanol will be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of our board of directors and any proposed merger or consolidation of our company. Xethanol’s ownership interest in our company may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of our company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Xethanol registration rights agreement requires us, as early as April 2008, upon their request, to file a registration statement to facilitate the spin off to Xethanol’s stockholders of the shares of our common stock issued to Xethanol in the merger, and to use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective as soon as practicable. Our management and auditors have identified a material weakness in the design or operation of our internal controls that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. During the audit of our 2007 financial statements, our management and independent auditors identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, partially based on our lack of a Chief Financial Officer for most of 2007. Our auditors define a “material weakness” as a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects an entity’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the entity’s financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. 12 Our control environment did not sufficiently promote effective internal control over financial reporting throughout the organization. Specifically we had a shortage of support and resources in our accounting department which resulted in insufficient (i) documentation and communication of certain business transactions and (ii ) application of technical accounting rules as of December 31, 2007. In December 2007, we hired a Chief Financial Officer and implemented additional financial management and disclosure controls to address this issue. Although we believe we have implemented appropriate internal controls and procedures to eliminate the material weakness prospectively and no misstatement of our financial statements occurred, if these controls are insufficient to address the identified material weakness, or if additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be adversely affected. Inferior internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Prices and markets for biofuel are unpredictable and tend to fluctuate significantly. The price of biofuels, as well as the price of conventional petroleum-based fuels and other alternative fuels, is based on world demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. World prices for biodiesel fuel have fluctuated widely in recent years, and we expect that prices will continue to fluctuate. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, results of operations and on our general financial condition. Price fluctuations for biodiesel and other conventional and alternative fuels may also impact the capital markets, and our ability to raise capital. Future decreases in the price of biodiesel and competing fuels may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. Our results of operations, financial condition and business outlook are substantially dependent on commodity prices and supplies, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, so our results could fluctuate substantially. Our results of operations, financial position and business outlook are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for vegetable oil, animal fat feedstock, and materials used in producing our biofuel. The prices for these items are quite volatile and could cause our results to fluctuate substantially. We may experience periods of declining prices for our products and increasing costs for our raw materials, which would result in operating losses. Many biofuel companies attempt to offset a portion of the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into forward contracts to supply vegetable oil or purchase feedstock or other items or by engaging in transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts. These activities involve substantial costs and substantial risks and may be ineffective in mitigating changing commodity prices. Engineering, constructing and operating biofuel manufacturing plants involves a high degree of risk. Engineering, constructing and operating biofuel manufacturing plants involves a high degree of risk, particularly when new technology such as ours is involved. These risks are more acute in the earlier stages of development. Our expenditures in developing manufacturing plants may not result in commercially viable projects. We cannot project the costs of constructing and operating manufacturing plants due to the inherent uncertainties of future feedstock prices, and the future pricing of oil, diesel fuel, bio-diesel fuel, heating fuel, fuel additives and other alternative fuels, the costs associated with encountering unknown obstacles, and changes in market demands. If construction costs exceed our or our sublicensees’ estimates or if our or our sublicensees’ efforts do not produce results which meet our expectations, our business may not be commercially successful, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our technology may become ineffective or obsolete. To be competitive in the biofuel industry, we may be required to continually enhance and update our technology. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and if we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to compete may be impaired. The impact of technical shortcomings could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition, and results of operations. 13 We operate in an industry subject to significant environmental regulation, and our business may be adversely affected by regulatory and environmental risks. Our business is subject to environmental risks and hazards and we are subject to environmental regulation implemented and/or imposed by a variety of international conventions as well as federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations. Environmental laws restrict and prohibit spills, discharges and emissions of various substances produced in association with biofuel manufacturing operations. Environmental laws also require that manufacturing plants are operated, maintained and closed in such a way that satisfies applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with environmental laws can require significant expenditures and a violation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, as well as potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Compliance with environmental laws may cause us to limit our production, significantly increase the costs of our operations and activities, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and/or prospects. In order to be marketable as a fuel for on-road motor vehicle applications, our biofuel must be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and comply with the EPA’s rigorous emissions, engine durability and health effects regulations. We have not yet applied for such registration. Section 211 of the Clean Air Act generally does not apply to using our biofuel in a stationary source, such as utility power generation applications or institutional or commercial heating fuel, or in certain marine applications. There may, however, be Federal or State requirements applicable to emissions from individual furnaces, boilers, and similar equipment. As a practical matter, market acceptance of our biofuel may be limited until we can demonstrate that (i) our biofuel is comparable to conventional fuels from an energy content and emissions perspective, as well as handling and storage perspectives, and (ii) that our biofuel is compatible with existing heating systems or power generation systems and other combustion systems. To date, we have not demonstrated any of the foregoing in such commercially available systems. In addition, certain initial testing indicated that our biofuel may require further development so that its viscosity is more stable under certain conditions. We are evaluating the regulatory requirements for using our fuel in motor vehicle applications in our territory outside the United States. Our business is subject to local legal, political, and economic factors. To the extent we operate our business outside of North America, particularly in Central America and the Caribbean where we have an existing license, we will need to adapt our business to the local legal, political and economic conditions. Certain of these areas are less hospitable to US businesses, and US businesses operating in certain of these areas have been subject at various times to risks from terrorism, military repression, interference with private contract rights, currency fluctuations, inflation, exchange controls, laws or policies affecting environmental issues (including land use and water use), workplace safety, foreign investment, foreign trade, investment or taxation, restrictions imposed on the alternative fuel industry (such as restrictions on production) and price controls and export controls. Any changes in alternative fuel, financial incentives, investment regulations, policies or a shift in political attitudes within our operating area are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business and future financial results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may continue to be subject to price fluctuations and illiquidity because our shares may continue to trade in small volumes. Although a trading market for our common stock exists, the trading volume has historically been light, and an active trading market for our common stock may never develop. There currently is no significant analyst coverage of our business. As a result of the limited trading market for our common stock and the lack of analyst coverage, the market price for our shares may continue to fluctuate significantly and will likely fluctuate more than the stock market as a whole. There may be a limited demand for shares of our common stock due to the reluctance or inability of certain investors to buy stocks quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, even if prices appear favorable, there may not be sufficient demand in order to complete a shareholder’s sell order. Without an active public trading market or broader public ownership, shares of our common stock are likely to be less liquid than the stock of most public companies, and any of our shareholders who attempt to sell their shares in any significant volumes may not be able to do so at all, or without depressing the publicly quoted bid prices for their shares. 14 The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile based upon developments in our business or the industry. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile as a result of many factors including, but not limited to: · our announcement of developments, whether positive or negative, with respect to our business, including the viability of our biofuel, new or changes in strategic relationships, and our ability or failure to meet business milestones; · developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; · the announcement of new products or product enhancements by our competitors; · changes in the market for alternative fuels and in commodities used to produce them; · fluctuations in the availability of capital to companies in the early stages; · changes in the social, political and economic climate in the regions in which we operate; and · the impact of sales and trading activity with respect to our common stock in the market. These and other factors are largely beyond our control, and the impact of these risks, individually or in the aggregate, may result in material changes to the market price of our common stock. We may not be able to attract the attention of brokerage firms for research and support. Additional risks may exist because we are an OTC Bulletin Board company that became public without an underwritten offering. Securities analysts of brokerage firms may not provide us with coverage because there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. We cannot assure you that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary offerings on our behalf in the future. A significant number of our shares are eligible for sale, and their sale could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. In 2007, we registered a total of 11,273,050 shares of our common stock held by non-affiliate selling shareholders, including shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of rights to purchase that are not currently outstanding, which shares are now eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we may be obligated to register shares held by Xethanol as early as April 2008 to facilitate the spinoff to Xethanol’s stockholders of the shares of our common stock issued to Xethanol in the reverse merger. Such registration would make 5,670,000 additional shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. Some or all of these shares of common stock may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to a registration statement or Rule 144, and these sales may depress the market for the shares of our common stock. In general, a person who has held restricted shares of an OTC Bulletin Board listed company for the requisite holding period, upon compliance with Rule 144 procedures, may sell shares into the market. Our common stock may be considered “a penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. To the extent the market price of our publicly traded common stock is less than $5.00 per share, it may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. 15 Reverse mergers may be disfavored by the SEC, and we may encounter difficulties or delays in registering certain securities in the future or achieving a listing on a national securities market. Historically, the SEC and stock exchanges have not generally favored transactions in which a privately-held company merges into a largely inactive company with publicly traded stock, and the SEC has adopted and may continue to adopt rules dealing with securities issued on a private basis by a “shell” or inactive public company prior to the reverse merger. Also, NASDAQ and other national securities markets may scrutinize carefully the shares issued by the shell public company or facets of the reverse merger transaction in connection with any application we may make to list our shares in the future, which could result in difficulties or delays in achieving listing on any national securities market. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 