D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be affected materially and adversely by any of the following risk factors. 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Our growth is dependent on our ability to attract and retain productive agents. A substantial portion of our business is conducted through our individual agents. Because of differences in productivity, a relatively small percentage of our sales agents is responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our sales of individual products. If we are unable to retain and build on this core group of highly productive agents, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Increasing competition for agents from insurance companies and other business institutions and increasing labor costs in China may also force us to increase the compensation of our agents and sales representatives, which would increase our operating costs and reduce our profitability. In addition, on January 6, 2013, the CIRC issued the Regulatory Rules on Insurance Sales Personnel, or the Sales Personnel Rules, which became effective on July 1, 2013. Among other things, the Sales Personnel Rules provide that individual agents must have at least a college degree, instead of a junior high school degree as previously required by the CIRC. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Regulation of Insurance Agencies, Insurance Brokers and Other Intermediaries”. Although the detailed implementation rules of the Sales Personnel Rules have not been issued and it is still unclear how such rules will be implemented by the CIRC, we believe that the market competition for qualified agents will be increased further if the CIRC were to strictly enforce such rules. We cannot guarantee that we will not have difficulty attracting and retaining productive agents in the future. If we are unable to develop other distribution channels for our products, our growth may be materially and adversely affected. Commercial banks and banking operations of post offices are rapidly emerging as some of the fastest growing distribution channels in China. Newly established domestic and foreign-invested life insurance companies have been focusing on commercial banks and banking operations of post offices as one of their main distribution channels. In addition, with the relaxation of the regulatory restrictions of ownership by commercial banks in insurance companies, the number of insurance companies owned or controlled by commercial banks is increasing. Each of the five largest Chinese stated-owned commercial banks has set up their own life insurance companies. These insurance companies are able to benefit from their holding relationships with these commercial banks to develop bancassurance as their main distribution channels. We do not have exclusive arrangements with any of the commercial banks and banking operations of post offices through which we sell insurance and annuity products, and thus our sales may be materially and adversely affected if one or more commercial banks or banking operations of post offices choose to favor our competitors’ products over our own. If we are unable to continue to develop our alternative distribution channels, our growth may be materially and adversely affected. Agent and employee misconduct is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our reputation or lead to regulatory sanctions or litigation costs. Agent or employee misconduct could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions, litigation or serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct could include: • engaging in misrepresentation or fraudulent activities when marketing or selling insurance policies or annuity contracts to customers; • hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; or • otherwise not complying with laws or our control policies or procedures. We cannot always deter agent or employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective in all cases. We have experienced agent and employee misconduct that has resulted in litigation and administrative actions against us and these agents and employees, and in some cases criminal proceedings and convictions against the agent or employee in question. None of these actions has resulted in material losses, damages, fines or other sanctions against us. We cannot assure you, however, that agent or employee misconduct will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. 11 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including senior management, underwriting personnel, actuaries, information technology specialists, investment managers and other professionals. The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel who have in-depth knowledge and understanding of the life insurance market in China, including members of our senior management, qualified underwriting personnel, actuaries, information technology specialists and experienced investment managers. As of the date of this annual report, we do not carry key personnel insurance for any of these personnel. We compete to attract and retain these key personnel with other life insurance companies and financial institutions, some of which may offer better compensation arrangements. Existing insurers are expanding their operations and the number of other financial institutions is growing. As the insurance and investment businesses continue to expand in China, we expect that competition for these personnel will increase in the future. Although we have not had difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified key personnel in the past, we cannot guarantee that this will continue to be the case. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel, our business and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect our profitability. Our profitability is affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations, trade surpluses and deficits, regulatory requirements and other factors beyond our control. During 2012, the PBOC reduced the interest rates twice. As a result, the interest rate on one-year term deposits was reduced from 3.50% to 3.00%. From the beginning of the year 2013 to the date of this annual report, the interest rates announced by the PBOC remained unchanged. If the Chinese government reduces interest rates, the income we realize from our investments will be reduced, which will affect our profitability. In addition, as instruments in our investment portfolio mature, we might have to reinvest the funds we receive in investments bearing low interest rates. However, if interest rates were to increase in the future, surrenders and withdrawals of insurance and annuity policies and contracts may increase as policy holders may seek other investments with higher perceived returns. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investment assets at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. For many of our long-term life insurance and annuity products, we are obligated to pay a minimum interest or crediting rate to our policyholders or annuitants, which is established when the product is priced. These products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce our “spread”, or the difference between the rates that we are required to pay under the policies and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments intended to support our insurance obligations. On June 10, 1999, the CIRC reduced to 2.50% the maximum guaranteed rate which life insurance companies could commit to pay on new policies and, in response, CLIC adopted new pricing policies which reduced the guaranteed rates on its products to a range of between 1.50% and 2.50%. As of December 31, 2013, the average guaranteed rate of return of the products we offered was 2.45%. We also have shifted our mix of products to emphasize products that lessen the impact from interest rate changes, including traditional policies that are not as sensitive to interest rates and participating policies under which our customers receive a portion of our distributable earnings from participating products, as well as products having shorter terms to better match the duration of our investment portfolio. Furthermore, we have made use of the relaxation of investment restrictions applicable to us to diversify our investments. We have not incurred negative spread on policies we have issued since our incorporation, as the average investment returns we have been able to generate have been higher than their guaranteed rates. However, if the rates of return on our investments were to fall below the minimum rates we guarantee, our profitability would be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents In August 2013, the CIRC published regulations that remove the cap fixed by it on the guaranteed rate which life insurance companies could commit to pay on traditional non-participating insurance policies, which was 2.50%. The 2.50% cap on the guaranteed rate will still remain in effect for participating and universal life insurance policies. Because the new CIRC regulations have only come into effect for a relatively short period of time, its impact on us was immaterial for the year of 2013. We have not yet determined the impact, if any, on our business as a whole in the long term, although it is possible that it could affect the profitability of our products. We cannot assure you that the removal of the 2.50% cap will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because of the general lack of long-term fixed income securities in the Chinese capital markets and the restrictions on the maximum amount that we may invest in each type of investment, we are unable to match closely the duration of our assets and liabilities, which increases our exposure to interest rate risk. Like other insurance companies, we seek to manage interest rate risk through managing, to the extent possible, the average duration of our investment assets and the insurance policy liabilities they support. Matching the duration of our assets to their related liabilities reduces our exposure to changes in interest rates, because the effect of the changes largely will be offset against each other. However, restrictions under the current PRC insurance law and regulations on the maximum amount that we may invest in a particular type of asset, as well as the limited availability of long-duration investment assets in the markets in which we invest, have resulted in, and in the future may result in, the duration of our assets being shorter than that of our liabilities, particularly with respect to liabilities with durations of more than 20 years. Furthermore, the financial markets currently do not provide an effective means for us to hedge our interest rate risk through financial derivative products. We believe that, with the gradual easing of the investment restrictions imposed on insurance companies in China, our ability to match the duration of our assets to that of our liabilities will improve. We also seek to manage the risk of duration mismatch by focusing on product offerings whose maturity profiles are in line with the duration of investments available to us in the prevailing investment environment. However, until we are able to match more closely the duration of our assets and liabilities, we will continue to be exposed to interest rate changes, which may materially and adversely affect our business and earnings. Our investments are subject to risks. We are exposed to potential investment losses if there is an economic downturn in China. Until November 2006, we were only permitted to invest the premiums and other income we receive in investments in China. We obtained the approval to invest overseas with our foreign currency denominated funds in November 2006. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Insurance Company Regulation—Regulation of investments”. However, we continued to make our investments mainly in China and, as of December 31, 2013, approximately 99.74% of our total investment assets were in China. In particular, as of December 31, 2013, approximately 47.3% of our total investment assets consisted of debt securities including Chinese government bonds, government agency bonds, corporate bonds, subordinated bonds and debt and other bonds and debts as approved by relevant government agencies; and 35.9% of our total investment assets consisted of term deposits with Chinese banks, and of these deposits, 63.6% were placed with the five largest Chinese state-owned commercial banks. A serious downturn in the Chinese economy may lead to investment losses, which would reduce our earnings. 13 Table of Contents The PRC securities markets are still emerging markets, which may expose us to risks of loss from our investments there. As of December 31, 2013, we had RMB 154,957 million (US$25,597 million) invested in equity securities, among which RMB 151,972 million (US$25,104 million) were invested in PRC securities markets, including securities investment funds and shares traded on the securities markets in China. These securities investment funds are primarily invested in equity securities that are issued by Chinese companies and traded on China’s stock exchanges. Beginning in March 2005, we are also permitted to directly invest in shares traded on the securities markets in China. The PRC securities markets are still emerging markets and are characterized by evolving regulatory, accounting and disclosure requirements. This may from time to time result in significant price volatility, unexpected losses or lack of liquidity. These factors could cause us to incur losses on our publicly traded investments. In addition, the PRC securities markets have recently experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price declines and volatility. Also, as one of the largest institutional investors in China, we may from time to time hold significant positions in many securities in which we invest, and any decision to sell or any perception in the market that we are a major seller of a security could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of that security. Defaults on our debt investments may materially and adversely affect our profitability. Approximately 47.3% of our investment assets as of December 31, 2013 were comprised of debt securities. The issuers whose debt securities we hold may fail to pay or otherwise default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, a lack of liquidity, a downturn in the economy, operational failures or other reasons. Losses due to these defaults could reduce our profitability. Investments in new investment channels may not lead to improvements in our rate of investment return or we may incur losses. The CIRC has in recent years significantly broadened the investment channels of Chinese life insurance companies. We have considered these alternative methods when making investments. For example, we made our first private equity fund investment in 2011. In 2012, we made a direct equity investment in COFCO Futures Co., Ltd. by acquiring 35% equity interest in it. In 2013, we began making investments in commercial real estate properties. However, these new investment channels are still subject to evolving regulatory requirements. For example, since January 2013, debt investment plans are no longer required to be filed with and reviewed by the CIRC, which may increase the risk exposure of our investments in debt investment plans. In March 2014, the CIRC warned insurance companies of risks in debt investment plans. The CIRC noted, among other things, that issuers of some debt investment plans are not properly backed by their parent companies which are supposed to guarantee the payments if the plans face financial difficulties. Parent companies of some issuers do not engage in operating activities that can generate cash inflows and do not have effective control over their subsidiaries. As a result, the consolidated financial statements of these companies may not truthfully reflect their capacity to make payments when the plans face financial difficulties. In addition, the total amount of debt investment plans issued in 2013 increased significantly, which caused concerns over the health of the debt investment plans market. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the total amount of our investment in debt investment plans was RMB 55,107 million (US$9,103 million). In addition, our experience with these new investment channels, especially overseas channels, might be limited. These factors could cause us to incur losses for our investments in these new investment channels or limit our ability to improve our rate of investment return. 14 Table of Contents We may incur foreign exchange and other losses for our investments denominated in foreign currencies. A portion of our investment assets are held in foreign currencies. We are authorized by the CIRC to invest our assets held in foreign currencies in the overseas financial markets as permitted by the CIRC. Thus, our investment results may be subject to foreign exchange risks, as well as the volatility and various other factors of overseas capital markets, including, among others, increase in interest rates. We recorded RMB 437 million (US$72 million) in foreign exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2013, resulting from our assets held in foreign currencies, which were affected by the appreciation of the Renminbi. Future movements in the exchange rate of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under China’s existing foreign exchange control regulations, the conversion of foreign currencies into the Renminbi requires approval of relevant government agencies. We obtained an approval to settle a portion of our assets held in foreign currencies into the Renminbi in 2005, which partially reduced the foreign exchange risks we are exposed to. Except for the aforementioned approval obtained in 2005, we have not obtained any approval to settle any portion of our assets held in foreign currencies into the Renminbi, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain any such approval in the future. If we do not obtain such approval, our ability to manage our foreign exchange risks may be limited. There are few financial products available in China to hedge foreign exchange risks, which substantially limits our ability to manage our foreign exchange risks. Differences in future actual operating results from the assumptions used in pricing and establishing reserves for our insurance and annuity products may materially affect our earnings. Our earnings depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual operating results are consistent with the relevant assumptions used in setting the prices for our products and establishing the reserves in our financial statements. Our assumptions include those for discount rate, mortality, morbidity, expenses and lapse rate, as well as certain macro-economic factors. To the extent that trends in actual experiences are less favorable than our underlying assumptions used in establishing these reserves, and these trends are expected to continue in the future, we could be required to increase our reserves. Any such increase could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and, if significant, our financial condition. We establish the reserves for obligations of future policies based on the expected payout of benefits, calculated through the use of assumptions for discount rate, mortality, morbidity, expenses and lapse rate, as well as certain macro-economic factors. These assumptions are based on our previous experience and data published by other Chinese life insurers, as well as judgments made by the management. These assumptions may deviate from our actual experience, and, as a result, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle these reserves or when these payments will need to be made. These amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. The discount rate assumption is affected by certain factors, such as further macro-economy, monetary and exchange rate policies, capital market results and availability of investment channels to invest our insurance funds. We review and update the assumptions used to evaluate the reserves periodically, and establish the reserves for insurance policies based on such assumptions. Standards with respect to the calculation and presentation of reserves are still evolving, and any charges in the future may also impact our earnings and presentations of financial statements. We record changes in our reserves in the period the reserves are established or re-estimated. If the reserves originally established for future policy benefits prove inadequate, we must increase our reserves established for future policy benefits, which may have a material effect on our earnings and our financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We have data available for a shorter period of time than do insurance companies operating in some other countries and, as a result, less claims experience on which to base some of the assumptions used in establishing our reserves. For a discussion of how we establish our assumptions for mortality, morbidity and lapse rate, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies”. Given the limited nature of this experience, it is possible that our actual claims could vary significantly from the assumptions used. Our risk management and internal reporting systems, policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than what the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, a significant portion of business information needs to be centralized from our many branch offices. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Failure or the ineffectiveness of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business or result in losses. We are likely to offer a broader and more diverse range of insurance and investment products in the future as the insurance market in China continues to develop. At the same time, we anticipate that the relaxing of regulatory restraints will result in us being able to invest in a significantly broader range of asset classes. The combination of these factors will require us to continue to enhance our risk management capabilities and is likely to increase the importance of our risk management policies and procedures to our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to adapt our risk management policies and procedures to our changing business, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Catastrophes could materially reduce our earnings and cash flow. We could in the future experience catastrophic losses that may have an adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of our insurance business. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including terrorist attacks, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires and epidemics, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. For example, the snow disaster in South China and earthquake in Wen Chuan in 2008 increased our current claims payments. In 2008, our claims payments for the snow disaster and for the earthquake were approximately RMB 12 million and RMB 153 million, respectively. We establish liabilities for claims arising from a specific catastrophe after assessing the exposure and damages arising from the event. Although we have purchased catastrophe reinsurance in order to reduce our catastrophe exposure, we cannot assure you that any significant catastrophic event will not have a material adverse effect on us. 16 Table of Contents Current or future litigation, arbitration and regulatory proceedings could result in financial losses or harm our businesses. We are involved in litigation and arbitration proceedings involving our insurance operations on an ongoing basis. In addition, the CIRC, as well as other PRC governmental agencies, including tax, commerce and industrial administration and audit bureaus, from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with PRC laws and regulations. These litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings have in the past resulted in payments of insurance benefits, damage awards, settlements or administrative sanctions, including fines, which have not been material to us. We currently have control procedures in place to monitor our litigation, arbitration and regulatory exposure and take appropriate actions. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Regulatory Proceedings”. While we cannot predict the outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, examination or investigation, we do not believe that any pending legal matter will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, we cannot assure you that any future litigation, arbitration or regulatory proceeding will not have an adverse outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Regulatory Proceedings”. The embedded value information we present in this annual report is based on several assumptions and may vary significantly as those assumptions are changed. In order to provide investors with an additional tool to understand our economic value and business results, we have disclosed information regarding our embedded value, as discussed in the section entitled “Item 8. Financial Information—Embedded Value”. These measures are based on a discounted cash flow valuation determined using commonly applied actuarial methodologies. Standards with respect to the calculation of embedded value are still evolving, however, and there is no universal standard which defines the form, calculation method or presentation format of the embedded value of an insurance company. Assumptions used in embedded value calculations include discount rate, mortality, morbidity, expenses and surrender rate, as well as certain macro-economic factors. These assumptions may deviate significantly from our actual experience. Because of the technical complexity involved in embedded value calculations and the fact that embedded value estimates vary materially as key assumptions are changed, you should read the discussion under the section entitled “Item 8. Financial Information—Embedded Value” in its entirety. You should use special care when interpreting embedded value results and should not place undue reliance on them. See also “Forward-Looking Statements”. A computer system failure, cyber-attacks or other security breaches may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions such as developing and selling insurance products, providing customer support, policy management, filing and paying claims, managing our investment portfolios and producing financial statements. Although we have designed and implemented a variety of security measures and backup plans to prevent or limit the effect of failure, our computer systems may be vulnerable to disruptions as a result of natural disasters, man-made disasters, criminal activities, pandemics or other events beyond our control. In addition, our computer systems may be subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. The failure of our computer systems for any reason could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have not experienced such a computer system failure or security breach in the past, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter a failure or security breach in the future. 17 Table of Contents We retain confidential information on our computer systems, including customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, for business purposes, from time to time customer information is transmitted between our computer systems and those of third parties, such as third-party agents selling insurance products for us. Any compromise of the security or other errors of our computer systems or those arising during the information transmission process that result in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation, increase regulatory scrutiny and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. United States Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act Legislation incorporating provisions referred to as Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, was adopted by the United States on March 18, 2010. The legislation and subsequent guidance generally requires a foreign financial institution, or FFI, to enter into an FFI agreement under which it will agree to identify and provide the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, with information regarding accounts, including certain insurance policies, held by U.S. persons and U.S.-owned foreign entities, or face 30% withholding tax on “withholdable payments,” which include among other items, payments of U.S.-source interest and dividends and gross proceeds from the sale or other disposition of property that may produce U.S.-source interest or dividends. This withholding will take place on a phased in schedule, beginning on July 1, 2014 with withholding on payments made to the FFI from U.S. sources. In addition, an FFI that has entered into an FFI agreement may be required to withhold on certain “foreign passsthru payments” made to FFIs that have not entered into their own FFI Agreements or to account holders who do not respond to requests to confirm their U.S. person status and/or do not agree to allow the FFI to report certain account related information to the IRS. Withholding on foreign passthru payments will begin no earlier than 2017. Since existing guidance reserves on the definition of “foreign passthru payment,” the scope of any withholding on foreign passthru payments is uncertain at this time. Some countries have entered into, and other countries are expected to enter into intergovernmental agreements, or IGAs, with the United States to facilitate the type of information reporting required under FATCA. While the existence of an IGA will not eliminate the risk of the withholding described above, these agreements are expected to reduce that risk for FFIs that are resident in countries that have entered into IGAs. In addition, depending on the applicable IGA, rather than reporting information directly to the IRS, a resident FFI may be required to report specified information on its U.S. accountholders to the taxing authorities of its country of residence, which will then pass the information to the IRS. It is unclear at this time whether the PRC intends to enter into an IGA with the United States. We will closely monitor developments regarding FATCA and IGAs. If we are required to comply with the terms of an FFI agreement or an IGA, we expect that our compliance costs will increase. If we do not comply with the terms of an FFI agreement or IGA, as applicable, then certain payments to us will be subject to withholding under FATCA. Since regulations and other guidance implementing FATCA remain under development, the future impact of this law on us is uncertain. The auditors’ reports included in this annual report are prepared by relying on audit work which is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within China, our auditor relied on its China affiliate to perform audits on our consolidated financial statements, and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditor as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. 18 Table of Contents This lack of PCAOB inspection of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating the audit work of any auditor that was performed in China including those performed by our auditor. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our consolidated financial statements. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings brought by the SEC against five accounting firms in China. In December 2012, the SEC initiated administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, alleging that they refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. In January 2014, an SEC administrative law judge ruled in favor of the SEC, issuing an initial decision which censured each of the five accounting firms for failure to provide their audit work papers to the SEC and ordered a six-month suspension of the China-based affiliates of four of the five accounting firms’ right to practice before the SEC. The accounting firms have appealed the decision of the administrative law judge to the SEC, and the decision will not come into force unless and until an order of finality is issued by the SEC. If the SEC upholds the decision of the administrative law judge, the accounting firms may appeal the order of finality in U.S. federal court. We are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, the China affiliate of the independent registered public accounting firm that has issued the auditors’ reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC for the fiscal years of 2011 and 2012 and the China affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year of 2013 are two of the five accounting firms named in the SEC’s proceedings, and we may be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies in China audited by these accounting firms because the independent registered public accounting firms that have issued the auditors’ reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC have relied on their China affiliates to perform audits on our financial statements. If the SEC prevails in the proceedings, the five accounting firms in China that were named in the proceedings may be barred from practicing before the SEC and hence unable to continue to perform audit work for China-based companies listed in the U.S., such as ourselves. If none of the China-based auditors are able to continue to perform audit work for China-based companies listed in the U.S., we will not be able to meet the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which may ultimately result in our deregistration by the SEC and delisting of our ADSs from the NYSE. 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the PRC Life Insurance Industry We expect competition in the Chinese insurance industry to increase, which may materially and adversely affect the growth of our business. We face competitive pressures from both domestic and foreign-invested life insurance companies operating in China, as well as from property and casualty insurance companies, which may compete with our accident and short-term health insurance businesses, and other financial institutions that sell other financial investment products in competition with ours. In addition, the establishment of other professional health insurance companies and pension annuities companies may also lead to greater competition in the health insurance business and commercial pension insurance business. If we are not able to adapt to these increasingly competitive pressures in the future, our growth rate may decline, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings. Competition among domestic life insurance companies is increasing. Our closest competitors are Ping An Life Insurance Company of China, Ltd., or Ping An Life, New China Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or New China Life, and China Pacific Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or China Pacific Life. Together, Ping An Life, New China Life, China Pacific Life and we accounted for more than 65% of the individual and group life insurance premiums in China in 2012, the last year for which official market information is available. According to statistical and market share information derived from China Insurance Yearbook, our market share of the individual life insurance premiums in China decreased from 35% in 2011 to 34% in 2012. Each of Ping An Life, New China Life and China Pacific Life has operated in the Chinese insurance market for more than ten years, and each has a recognized brand name. In 2012, Ping An Life had a greater market share than we did in Beijing, Shanghai, Qingdao, Dalian, and Shenzhen, and New China Life had a greater market share than we did in Beijing. We also face competition from insurance companies owned or controlled by commercial banks. Each of the five largest Chinese state-owned commercial banks has set up their own life insurance companies. These insurance companies are able to benefit from their holding relationships with these commercial banks to develop bancassurance as their main distribution channels. In addition, we also face competition from smaller insurance companies, which may develop strong positions in various regions in which we operate, and new entrants to the group life insurance market, including professional pension companies that are being established pursuant to a set of regulations promulgated by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security of the PRC, and new entrants to the health insurance industry, including newly approved and established professional health insurance companies, following the adoption by the Chinese government of policies that encourage the development of health insurance and improved health care in China. Competition from foreign-invested life insurance companies is increasing, as restrictions on their operations in China are relaxed. Foreign-invested life insurance companies are insurance companies in which foreign entities hold at least a 25% interest. Foreign-invested insurers have been permitted to sell health, annuity and group life insurance products nationwide since December 2004. In Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Beijing, where foreign-invested insurers have been allowed to operate since 1992, 1995, 1999 and 2003, the foreign-invested insurers had respective life insurance market shares of approximately 16%, 21%, 9% and 15% in 2012. We believe that the relaxation of the restrictions on foreign-invested insurers will continue to increase the competitive pressures we are facing. Foreign-invested life insurance companies, through their Chinese and/or foreign shareholders, may have access to greater financial, technological or other resources than we do. 20 Table of Contents We are likely to face increasing competition from property and casualty insurance companies and other companies offering products that compete with our own. In addition to competition from life insurance companies, we face competition from other companies that may offer products that compete with our own, including: • Property and casualty companies. Beginning on January 1, 2003, property and casualty insurance companies have been permitted to sell accident and short-term health insurance products, but only with regulatory approval. There were 64 property and casualty insurers as of December 31, 2013. We believe property and casualty insurers have the competitive advantage of being able to bundle, or cross-sell, accident and short-term health products with the other non-life insurance products that they are currently selling to their existing and potential customers. We believe this will lead to greater competition in the accident and health insurance sectors, especially for the group accident and short-term health insurance products we offer. On December 30, 2006, we established a property and casualty joint venture, CLPCIC, with CLIC. While this joint venture mainly focuses on property insurance business, it also develops accident and short-term health insurance business. Its operations may have a negative impact on sales of accident and short-term health insurance products by our wholly-owned businesses in the future. • Mutual fund companies, commercial banks and other financial services providers. We face increasing competition from other financial services providers, primarily licensed mutual fund companies, commercial banks providing personal banking services and operating business of various financial products, trust companies and securities brokerage firms licensed to manage separate accounts. Recent changes in Chinese investment regulations relaxing rules on the formation of mutual funds and sales of securities have led to greater availability and variety of financial investment products. These products may prove to be attractive to the public and thereby adversely affect the sale of some products we offer, including participating life insurance policies and annuities. All of our individual agents are required to obtain qualification certificates and all of our institutional insurance agencies and brokers are required to obtain permits and be registered. If a substantial number of our individual agents, institutional insurance agencies and brokers fail to meet these qualification and registration requirements or this failure results in policyholders canceling their policies, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Individual life insurance agents, representatives of institutional insurance agencies and insurance brokers are required to obtain a qualification certificate from the CIRC in order to conduct insurance agency business. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Regulation of Insurance Agencies, Insurance Brokers and Other Intermediaries”. Approximately 0.13% of our individual agents had not obtained such a certificate as of December 31, 2013. Under applicable CIRC regulations, insurance companies that retain individual agents without CIRC qualification certificates to engage in insurance sales activities will be warned and fined up to RMB 30,000, and such individual agents will also be warned and fined up to RMB 10,000. If more CIRC agencies were to enforce this regulation in the future, and if a substantial number of our agents do not become qualified, or if a substantial number of our policyholders who bought insurance policies through our unqualified exclusive agents were to cancel the policies because of these regulations, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we may be subject to fines and other administrative proceedings for the failure of our insurance agents to obtain the necessary CIRC qualification certificates. In addition, on January 6, 2013, the CIRC issued the Sales Personnel Rules, which became effective on July 1, 2013. Among other things, the Sales Personnel Rules provide that individual agents must have at least a college degree, instead of a junior high school degree previously required by the CIRC. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Regulation of Insurance Agencies, Insurance Brokers and Other Intermediaries”. The detailed implementation rules of the Sales Personnel Rules have not been issued and it is still unclear how such rules will be implemented by the CIRC. If the CIRC were to enforce such rules, we may be subject to fines and other administrative proceedings if any of our insurance agents fail to meet the requirements. Any such fines or administrative proceedings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Institutional insurance agents and insurance brokers are required under the PRC insurance law to register with the administration of industry and commerce, and obtain business licenses with the permits issued by the CIRC. It also requires non-dedicated institutional insurance agencies to obtain registrations with the administration of industry and commerce with the permits issued by the CIRC. We cannot assure you that all of our institutional agents would obtain such licenses. The enforcement of this requirement could adversely affect the composition and effectiveness of our distribution system, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further development of regulations in China may impose additional costs and restrictions on our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry. The CIRC supervises and administers the insurance industry in China. In exercising its authority, it is given certain discretion to administer the law. China’s insurance regulatory regime is undergoing significant changes toward a more transparent regulatory process and a convergent movement toward international standards. Some of these changes may result in additional costs or restrictions on our activities. For example, on January 6, 2013, the CIRC issued the Sales Personnel Rules, which became effective on July 1, 2013. Among other things, the Sales Personnel Rules provide that individual agents must have at least a college degree, instead of a junior high school degree as was previously required by the CIRC. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Regulation of Insurance Agencies, Insurance Brokers and Other Intermediaries”. Although the detailed implementation rules of the Sales Personnel Rules have not been issued and it is still unclear how such rules will be implemented by the CIRC, we believe that the market competition for qualified agents may be increased further and therefore the cost of attracting and retaining qualified agents may increase. In addition, because the terms of our products are subject to regulations, changes in regulations may affect our profitability on the policies and contracts we issue. For instance, under guidelines issued by the CIRC, the dividends on our participating products must be no less than 70% of the distributable earnings from participating products in accordance with CIRC requirements. If this level were to be increased in the future, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, in August 2013, the CIRC published regulations that remove the cap fixed by it on the guaranteed rate which life insurance companies could commit to pay on traditional non-participating insurance policies, which was 2.50%. The 2.50% cap on the guaranteed rate will still remain in effect for participating and universal life insurance policies. Because the new CIRC regulations have only come into effect for a relatively short period of time, its impact on us was immaterial for 2013. We have not yet determined the impact, if any, on our business as a whole in the long term, although it is possible that it could affect the profitability of our products. We cannot assure you that the removal of the 2.50% cap will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with minimum solvency requirements is affected by a number of factors, and our compliance may force us to raise additional capital, which could increase our financing costs or be dilutive to our existing investors, or to reduce our growth. We are required by CIRC regulation to maintain our solvency at a level in excess of minimum solvency levels. The solvency ratio is calculated by dividing the actual capital of an insurance company by the minimum capital it is required to meet. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Insurance Company Regulation—Solvency requirements”. Our minimum capital is affected primarily by the policy reserves we are required to maintain which, in turn, are affected by the volume of policies and contracts we sell and by regulations on the determination of minimum capital. Our solvency ratio is also affected by a number of other factors, including the profit margin of our products, returns on our investments, underwriting and acquisition costs and policyholder and shareholder dividends. Our solvency ratio as of December 31, 2013 was 226.22%. While our solvency ratio is currently above the required ratio of 100%, if we grow rapidly in the future, or if the required solvency level is raised in the future, we may need to raise additional capital to meet our solvency requirement, including through additional issuance of subordinated term debt, which would increase our financing costs, or through additional issuance of shares, which would be dilutive to our existing investors. If we are not able to raise additional capital, we may be forced to reduce the growth of our business. Risks Relating to the Restructuring CLIC has incurred substantial losses on the policies retained by it in the restructuring. If CLIC is unable to meet its obligations to its policyholders, it may seek to increase the level of dividends we pay, sell the China Life shares it owns or take other actions which may have a material adverse effect on the value of the shares our other existing investors own. In connection with the restructuring, CLIC transferred to us (1) all long-term insurance policies (policies having a term of more than one year from the date of issuance) issued on or after June 10, 1999, having policy terms approved by or filed with the CIRC on or after June 10, 1999 and either (i) recorded as a long-term insurance policy as of June 30, 2003 in a database attached to the restructuring agreement as an annex or (ii) having policy terms for group supplemental medical insurance (fund type), (2) stand-alone short-term policies (policies having a term of one year or less from the date of issuance) issued on or after June 10, 1999, and (3) all riders supplemental to the policies described in clauses (1) and (2) above, together with the reinsurance contracts specified in an annex to the restructuring agreement. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Our Restructuring”. CLIC has incurred substantial losses on these non-transferred policies, primarily because the guaranteed rates it had committed to pay on these policies are higher than the investment return it was able to generate on its investment assets. This negative spread on non-transferred policies created substantial losses for CLIC and a resulting negative net worth. The amount of accumulated undistributed profits of CLIC itself is expected to remain negative in the short term. In connection with the restructuring, CLIC has established, together with the MOF, a special purpose fund for the purpose of paying claims under the non-transferred policies. The special purpose fund will be funded by investment assets retained by CLIC; renewal premiums paid on the non-transferred policies over time; a portion of the tax payments made by CLIC, China Life and AMC; profits from the investments of the special purpose fund; shareholder dividends paid in cash to CLIC by China Life; proceeds from the disposition of China Life shares by CLIC over time; and funds injected by the MOF in the event of a deficiency in the special purpose fund, as described below. The fund is co-administered by CLIC and the MOF. The special purpose fund will be available to satisfy CLIC’s operating expenses, including the payment of benefits and claims obligations arising from the non-transferred policies, as well as expenses incurred in operating the special purpose fund, including third-party management fees and professional fees, and such other purposes as the management committee of the fund may agree. The special purpose fund will be dissolved when all claims and benefits under the non-transferred policies have been paid, or sooner if the management committee so agrees. 23 Table of Contents The MOF’s approval of the special purpose fund issued to CLIC provides that in the event there is any deficiency in the special purpose fund for so long as the fund is in existence, as described above, to meet any payment obligation arising out of the non-transferred policies, the MOF will provide support through the injection of funds to ensure the payments of benefits and claims to the policyholders of the non-transferred policies. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Our Restructuring”. In connection with the restructuring, we were advised by our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, that (1) the MOF has the authority to issue this approval regarding the special purpose fund, (2) the approval is valid and effective, and (3) it has no reason to believe that the MOF will revoke the approval. We cannot assure you, however, that a court would decide in a manner consistent with King & Wood’s conclusions. We cannot predict the amount of funds that will be available to the special purpose fund from CLIC’s own operations to satisfy its obligations to its policyholders as they become due. CLIC’s cash requirements and available cash resources will be affected by several factors which are subject to uncertainty, including prevailing interest rates and the returns on investment generated by CLIC’s assets, as well as the claims, expenses and persistency experience with respect to CLIC’s insurance policies. The cash resources available to CLIC will also depend in part on our profitability, which will affect the amount of our tax payments and hence the amount of refund contributed to the fund, the timing and amount of our dividend payments and the market prices of our shares and ADSs, which will affect the proceeds to CLIC from dispositions of our shares. If it is unable to satisfy its obligations to its policyholders from other sources, CLIC may seek, subject to our articles of association and applicable laws, to increase the amount of dividends we pay in order to satisfy its cash flow requirements. Any such increase in our dividend payments would reduce the funds available for reinvestment in our business. In addition, if we are unable to pay dividends in amounts sufficient to satisfy these requirements, CLIC may seek to sell its shareholdings in us or take other actions in order to satisfy these needs. The sale of these holdings or even the market perception of such a sale may materially and adversely affect the price of our shares. The transfer of policies to us by CLIC and/or the separation of assets between CLIC and us may be subject to challenge. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, that (1) the transferred policies have been legally and validly transferred to China Life and (2) following the restructuring, we will not have any continuing obligations to holders of the non-transferred policies who remain policyholders of CLIC and that there is no legal basis on which holders of the non-transferred policies can make a claim against China Life. We also have been advised by King & Wood that, although there is no specific law applicable to restructurings, these conclusions are supported by, among other things, the approval of the restructuring and various related matters by the State Council, the MOF and the CIRC; the support provided by the MOF with respect to the non-transferred policies as described above; and contract and other law. We cannot assure you that policyholders of CLIC, holders of transferred policies or other parties will not seek to challenge the transfer of the transferred policies or the separation of assets occurring as a consequence of the restructuring, or that a court would decide in a manner consistent with King & Wood’s conclusions. If the transfer of policies to us or the separation of assets were challenged successfully, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We do not hold exclusive rights to the trademarks in the “China Life” name (in English and Chinese), the “ball” logos and other business related slogans and logos, and CLIC, which owns these trademarks, may take actions that would impair the benefits we derive from their use. We conduct our business under the “China Life” brand name, the “ball” logos and other business related slogans and logos. CLIC owns these trademarks and has registered them with the Trademark Office of the SAIC. CLIC has entered into a trademark license agreement with us, under which CLIC has agreed to grant us and our branches a royalty-free license to use these trademarks. Although CLIC has undertaken in a non-competition agreement with us not to compete with us in China, without our prior consent in writing, in any life, accident and health insurance and any other businesses in China which may compete with our insurance business, CLIC, its subsidiaries and affiliates are permitted to use the brand name and logo in their own businesses, including life insurance business outside China and any other businesses they may enter into in the future within China, including property and casualty (other than businesses that compete with our accident and health businesses) and asset management businesses. In addition, they are not precluded from taking actions that may impair the value of the brand name, which could harm our business. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Continuing Related Party Transactions with CLIC”. The China Life brand name and our reputation could be materially harmed if CLIC fails to make payments when due on outstanding policies retained by CLIC in the restructuring or new policies written by CLIC after the restructuring, if CLIC reduces the rates of return payable on policies retained by CLIC or if CLIC is placed into receivership. As our controlling shareholder, CLIC will be able to exert influence on our affairs and could cause us to make decisions or enter into transactions that may not be in your best interests. We are controlled by CLIC, whose interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, CLIC holds approximately 68.37% of our share capital. As a result of these factors, CLIC, which is wholly-owned by the PRC government, will, so long as it holds the majority of our shares, effectively be able to control the composition of our board of directors and, through the board, exercise a significant influence over our management and policies. In addition, subject to our articles of association and applicable laws, CLIC may, so long as it holds the majority of our shares, effectively be able to determine the timing and amount of our dividend payments and approve increases or decreases of our share capital, the issuance of new securities, amendments of our articles of association, mergers and acquisitions and other major corporate transactions. CLIC may also be able to prevent us effectively from taking actions to enforce or exercise our rights under agreements to which we are a party, including the agreements we entered into with CLIC in connection with the restructuring. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. As a majority shareholder, CLIC may be able to take these actions without your approval. In addition, CLIC’s control could have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management that might be desirable to other shareholders. CLIC may direct business opportunities elsewhere. CLIC has other business interests, including the run-off of the insurance policies retained by it in the restructuring. Notwithstanding a general undertaking pursuant to a non-competition agreement with us not to compete with us in our principal areas of business in China, CLIC is permitted to sell riders to these retained policies and enter into other businesses, including life insurance businesses outside of China and property and casualty (other than businesses that compete with our accident and health businesses) and asset management businesses, both inside and outside of China. We formed a property and casualty joint venture with CLIC, in connection with which we granted a waiver to CLIC allowing it to engage in accident and short-term health businesses indirectly through the property and casualty joint venture with us. 25 Table of Contents CLIC also may engage in insurance business in other regions outside of China in the future. Although it is required under the non-competition agreement to give us a right of first refusal over any business opportunities it develops in these areas, we may not be in a position to take advantage of these opportunities at that time, which could harm our business. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Continuing Related Party Transactions with CLIC”. In addition, while we provide policy administration and other services to CLIC for the policies retained by CLIC in the restructuring, and provide investment management services to CLIC through our asset management subsidiary, these agreements can be terminated with notice or upon expiration. If CLIC were to terminate its policy administration and asset management arrangements with us and our asset management subsidiary respectively, our loss of fees could materially and adversely affect us. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including, without limitation: • the extent of government involvement; • its level of development; • its growth rate; and • its control of foreign exchange. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. According to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics of China, China’s Gross Domestic Product, a key indicator of economic growth, was 7.7% in 2013, its slowest pace in 14 years. In an effort to bolster the economy, the Chinese government may take certain measures, including market-oriented financial reforms. Some of the measures taken by the Chinese government to improve China’s economic performance may have a negative effect on our business. For example, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by government monetary policies, changes in interest rate policies, tax regulations, policies and regulations affecting the capital markets and asset management industry. A slowdown in Chinese growth rates could also adversely affect us by impacting sales of our products, reducing our investment returns, or otherwise. 26 Table of Contents The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you. We are organized under the laws of China and are governed by our articles of association. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the Chinese legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with such economic matters as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Holders of H shares and ADSs generally are required to resolve disputes with us, our senior management and holders of our A shares only through arbitration in Hong Kong or China. In accordance with the rules applicable to Chinese overseas listed companies, our articles of association provide that, with certain limited exceptions, all disputes or claims based on our articles of association, PRC company law or other relevant laws or administrative rules, and concerning matters between holders of H shares and ADSs and holders of A shares, us, or our directors, supervisors, president, vice presidents or other senior officers, must be submitted for arbitration at either the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission or the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center. If an applicant chooses to have the dispute arbitrated at the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center, either party may request that the venue be changed to Shenzhen, a city in China near Hong Kong. The governing law for any such disputes or claims is Chinese law, unless Chinese law itself provides otherwise. Pursuant to an arrangement of mutual enforcement of arbitration awards between the PRC courts and the Hong Kong courts, Hong Kong arbitration awards are enforceable in China, subject to the satisfaction of certain legal requirements. However, due to the limited number of actions that have been brought in China by holders of shares issued by a Chinese company to enforce an arbitral award, we are uncertain as to the outcome of any action brought in China to enforce a Hong Kong arbitral award made in favor of holders of H shares and ADSs. The laws in China differ from the laws in the United States and may afford less protection to our minority shareholders. Although Chinese company law provides that shareholders of a Chinese company may, under certain circumstances, sue the company’s directors, supervisors and senior management in the interests of the company, no detailed implementation rules or court interpretations have been issued in this regard. Also, class action lawsuits are generally uncommon in China. In addition, PRC company law imposes limited obligations on a controlling shareholder with respect to protection of the interests of minority shareholders, although overseas listed joint stock companies, such as ourselves, are required to adopt certain provisions in their articles of association that are designed to protect minority shareholder rights. These mandatory provisions provide, among other things, that the rights of any class of shares, including H shares, may not be varied without a resolution approved by holders of shares in the affected class holding no less than two-thirds of the shares of the affected class entitled to vote, and provide that in connection with a merger or division involving our company, a dissenting shareholder may require us or the consenting shareholders to purchase the dissenters’ shares at a fair price. Disputes arising from these protective provisions would likely have to be resolved by arbitration. See “—Holders of H shares and ADSs generally are required to resolve disputes with us, our senior management and holders of our A shares only through arbitration in Hong Kong or China”. 27 Table of Contents You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in the PRC based on U.S. or other foreign laws against us, our management and some of the experts named in the annual report. We are a company incorporated under the laws of China, and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our directors, supervisors, executive officers and some of the experts named in this annual report reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our directors, supervisors or executive officers or some of the experts named in this annual report, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, has advised us that China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan or many other countries. Our Hong Kong legal adviser, Latham & Watkins, has also advised us that Hong Kong has no statutory arrangement for the reciprocal enforcement of judgments with the United States although it may be possible for a civil action to be brought in Hong Kong based on a monetary judgment of the courts of the United States. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China or Hong Kong of judgments of a court in the United States and any of the other jurisdictions mentioned above in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against us, our directors, supervisors, executive officers or the experts named in this annual report only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and our articles of association, and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. Holders of H shares may be subject to PRC taxation. Under current PRC tax laws, regulations and rulings, dividends paid by us to individual holders of H shares outside of the PRC are subject to PRC individual income tax at rates ranging from 5% to 20% (usually 10%), depending on the applicable tax treaties between the home country of the individual holder of H shares and the PRC. When paying dividends to non-resident enterprise holders of H shares outside of the PRC, such dividends are subject to an enterprise income tax, which is currently levied at a rate of 10%. Such non-resident enterprise holders of H shares may be entitled to tax reductions or exemptions according to applicable tax treaties. In addition, to date, relevant tax authorities have not collected capital gains tax on the gains realized by individuals upon the sale or other disposition of H shares. If relevant tax authorities promulgate implementation rules on the taxation of capital gains realized by individuals upon the sale or other disposition of H shares, individual holders of H shares may be required to pay capital gains tax. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—The People’s Republic of China”. Government control of currency conversion and the fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our operations and financial results. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of these revenues must be converted into other currencies to allow us to make payments on declared dividends, if any, on our H shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with various procedural requirements. The Chinese government, however, may, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If this were to occur, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 28 Table of Contents The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government introduced a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of currencies. Since then, the PRC government has made, and may in the future make, further adjustments to the exchange rate system. The PBOC announces the closing price of a foreign currency traded against the Renminbi in the inter-bank foreign exchange market after the closing of the market on each working day, and makes it the central parity for the trading against the Renminbi on the following working day. From July 21, 2005 to April 17, 2014, the Renminbi appreciated by approximately 24.86% against the U.S. dollar. In 2012 and 2013, the Renminbi appreciated by approximately 1.02% and 2.83% against the U.S. dollar, respectively. We had approximately RMB 437 million (US$72 million) in foreign exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2013, resulting from our assets held in foreign currencies, which were affected by the appreciation of the Renminbi. Any future devaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect the value of, and any dividends payable on, our H shares in foreign currency terms. Our financial condition and results of operations also may be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than the Renminbi. Payment of dividends is subject to restrictions under Chinese law. Under Chinese law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. However, ordinarily we will not pay any dividends in a year in which we do not have any distributable profits. Payment of dividends by us is also regulated by the PRC insurance law. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Policy on Dividend Distributions”. 