RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be affected materially and adversely by any of the following risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Business Our growth is dependent on our ability to attract and retain productive agents A substantial portion of our business is conducted through our individual agents. Because of differences in productivity, a relatively small percentage of our sales agents is responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our sales of individual products. If we are unable to retain and build on this core group of highly productive agents, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Competition for agents from insurance companies and other business institutions may also force us to increase the compensation of our agents and sales representatives, which would increase operating costs and reduce our profitability. Although we have not had difficulty in attracting and retaining productive agents in the recent past, and do not anticipate any difficulties in the future, we cannot guarantee that this will continue to be the case. If we are unable to develop other distribution channels for our products, our growth may be materially and adversely affected Banks and banking operations of post offices are rapidly emerging as some of the fastest growing distribution channels in China. Newly established domestic and foreign-invested life insurance companies have been particularly focusing on banks and banking operations of post offices as one of their main distribution channels. We do not have exclusive arrangements with any of the banks and banking operations of post offices through which we sell insurance and annuity products, and thus our sales may be materially and adversely affected if one or more banks or banking operations of post offices choose to favor our competitors’ products over our own. If we are unable to continue to develop our alternative distribution channels, our growth may be materially and adversely affected. Agent and employee misconduct is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our reputation or lead to regulatory sanctions or litigation costs Agent or employee misconduct could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions, litigation or serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct could include: • engaging in misrepresentation or fraudulent activities when marketing or selling insurance policies or annuity contracts to customers; • hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; or • otherwise not complying with laws or our control policies or procedures. 9 Table of Contents We cannot always deter agent or employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective in all cases. We have experienced agent and employee misconduct that has resulted in litigation and administrative actions against us and these agents and employees, and in some cases criminal proceedings and convictions against the agent or employee in question. None of these actions has resulted in material losses, damages, fines or other sanctions against us. We cannot assure you, however, that agent or employee misconduct will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including senior management, underwriting personnel, actuaries, information technology specialists, investment managers and other professionals The success of our business is dependent to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel who have in-depth knowledge and understanding of the life insurance market in China, including members of our senior management, qualified underwriting personnel, actuaries, information technology specialists and experienced investment managers. As of the date of this annual report, we do not carry key personnel insurance for any of these personnel. We compete to attract and retain these key personnel with other life insurance companies and financial institutions, some of which may offer better compensation arrangements. The number of new domestic and foreign-invested insurers is increasing at a significant pace, existing insurers are expanding their operations and the number of other financial institutions is growing. As the insurance and investment businesses continue to expand in China, we expect that competition for these personnel will increase in the future. Although we have not had difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified key personnel in the past, we cannot guarantee that this will continue to be the case. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel, our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. We Are Exposed to Changes in Interest Rates Changes in interest rates may affect our profitability Our profitability is affected by changes in interest rates. We have experienced a generally low interest rate environment for several years until October 2004, when the interest rate on one-year term deposits was raised from 1.98% to 2.25%. In August 2006, the interest rate on one-year term deposits was further raised from 2.25% to 2.52%. During the year 2007, several revisions were made to the interest rate on one-year term deposits, which resulted in the further increase of the interest rate from 2.52% to 4.14%. During the year 2008, in light of the global economic downturn, the PBOC consecutively reduced the interest rate on one year deposits significantly from 4.14% to 2.25% in an effort to bolster the economy. If the worldwide financial crisis worsens, the Chinese government may take further measures, including reducing interest rates further, which may reduce the income we realize from our investments, affecting our profitability. In addition, as instruments in our investment portfolio mature, we might have to reinvest the funds we receive in investments bearing lower interest rates. However, if interest rates were to increase in the future, surrenders and withdrawals of insurance and annuity policies and contracts may increase as policyholders seek other investments with higher perceived returns. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investment assets, including debt securities, equity securities, term deposits, restricted statutory deposits, loans, securities purchased under agreements to resell (or the “resale agreements”), cash and cash equivalents, at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. For many of our long-term life insurance and annuity products, we are obligated to pay a minimum interest or crediting rate to our policyholders or annuitants, which is established when the product is priced. These products expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce our “spread”, or the difference between the rates that we are required to pay under the policies and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments intended to support our insurance obligations. Our historical results and financial position included in this annual report reflect the continuing performance of policies that were issued by CLIC prior to June 10, 10 Table of Contents 1999. Many of these policies paid guaranteed fixed rates of return that, due to declining interest rates, came to be significantly higher than the rates of return on investment assets. From 1996 through 2002, the PBOC made a series of reductions in the interest rates Chinese commercial banks could pay on their deposits. The interest rate on one-year term deposits, a key benchmark rate, was reduced eight times, from 10.98% in April 1996 to 1.98% in February 2002. As a result, CLIC experienced a significant negative spread on its guaranteed rate policies and CLIC’s results of operations continue to be adversely impacted by the effect of those interest rate cuts. On June 10, 1999, the CIRC reduced to 2.50% the maximum guaranteed rate which life insurance companies could commit to pay on new policies and in response, CLIC adopted new pricing policies which reduced the guaranteed rates on its products to a range of between 1.50% and 2.50%. We also have shifted our mix of products to emphasize products that lessen the impact from interest rate changes, including traditional policies that are not as sensitive to interest rates and participating policies under which our customers receive a portion of our distributable earnings from participating products, as well as products having shorter terms to better match the duration of our investment portfolio. Furthermore, we have made use of the relaxation of investment restrictions applicable to us to diversify our investments. We and CLIC have not incurred negative spread on policies issued since June 10, 1999, as the average investment returns we and CLIC have been able to generate have been higher than their guaranteed rates. However, if the rates of return on our investments fall below the minimum rates we guarantee, our profitability would be materially and adversely affected. Because of the general lack of long-term fixed income securities in the Chinese capital markets and the restrictions on the types of investments we may make, we are unable to match closely the duration of our assets and liabilities, which increases our exposure to interest rate risk Like other insurance companies, we seek to manage interest rate risk through managing, to the extent possible, the average duration of our investment assets and the insurance policy liabilities they support. Matching the duration of our assets to their related liabilities reduces our exposure to changes in interest rates, because the effect of the changes largely will be offset against each other. However, restrictions under the current PRC insurance law and regulations on the asset classes in which we may invest, as well as the limited availability of long-duration investment assets in the markets in which we invest, have resulted in the duration of our assets being shorter than that of our liabilities, particularly with respect to liabilities with durations of more than 20 years. Furthermore, the financial markets currently do not provide an effective means for us to hedge our interest rate risk through financial derivative products. We believe that, with the gradual easing of the investment restrictions imposed on insurance companies in China, our ability to match the duration of our assets to that of our liabilities will improve. We also seek to manage the risk of duration mismatch by focusing on product offerings whose maturity profiles are in line with the duration of investments available to us in the prevailing investment environment. However, until we are able to match more closely the duration of our assets and liabilities, we will continue to be exposed to interest rate changes, which may materially and adversely affect our earnings. Our Investments are Subject to Risks We are exposed to potential investment losses if there is an economic downturn in China Under the current PRC insurance law, we may invest the premiums, deposits and other income we receive only in China, unless and until we are approved to invest overseas with our foreign currency denominated funds. We obtained approval for such overseas investment in November 2006. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Insurance Company Regulation—Regulation of investments”. In particular, as of December 31, 2008, approximately 61.43% of our total investment assets consisted of debt securities including government securities, bonds issued by state-owned policy banks of the Chinese government, corporate bonds, bonds issued by financial institutions, convertible bonds and certain subordinated bonds; and 24.31% of our total investment assets consisted of term deposits with Chinese banks, and of these deposits, 21.78% were placed with the four largest Chinese state-owned commercial banks. A serious downturn in the Chinese economy may lead to investment losses, which would reduce our earnings. 11 Table of Contents We may incur foreign exchange and other losses for our investments denominated in foreign currencies A portion of our investment assets, including the proceeds from our initial public offering in 2003, are held in foreign currencies. We are authorized by the CIRC to invest our assets held in foreign currencies in the overseas financial markets as permitted by the CIRC. Thus, our investment results may be subject to foreign exchange risks, as well as the volatility and various other factors of overseas capital markets, including, among others, increase in interest rates. We recorded RMB907 million (US$133 million) in foreign exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2008, resulting from our assets held in foreign currencies, which were affected by the appreciation of the Renminbi. Future movements in the exchange rate of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under China’s existing foreign exchange control regulations, the conversion of foreign currencies into the Renminbi requires approval of relevant government agencies. We obtained an approval to settle a portion of our assets held in foreign currencies into the Renminbi in 2005, which partially reduced the foreign exchange risks we are exposed to. We did not obtain any approval to settle any portion of our assets held in foreign currencies into the Renminbi in 2006, 2007 and 2008 and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain any such approval in the future. If we do not obtain such approval, our ability to manage our foreign exchange risks may be limited. There are few financial products available in China to hedge foreign exchange risks, which substantially limits our ability to manage our foreign exchange risks. Defaults on our debt investments may materially and adversely affect our profitability Approximately 61.43% of our investment assets as of December 31, 2008 were comprised of debt securities. The issuers whose debt securities we hold may fail to pay or otherwise default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, a lack of liquidity, a downturn in the economy, operational failures or other reasons. Losses due to these defaults could reduce our profitability. Unless we are permitted to invest in a broader range of asset classes, our ability to improve our rate of investment return will be limited Our premiums and deposits have grown rapidly during the last three years. As a Chinese life insurance company we are subject to significant restrictions under current PRC insurance law and regulations on the asset classes in which we are permitted to invest. Until 2004, Chinese life insurance companies were allowed to invest their funds only in Chinese bank deposits, government bonds, domestic corporate bonds and securities investment funds. These asset classes historically have yielded a comparatively low return on investment. Since 2004, the investment channels of Chinese life insurance companies have been broadened to permit investment in convertible bonds, specified subordinated debts and bonds issued by qualified commercial banks and insurance companies; local government bonds issued and cashed by the Ministry of Finance as an agent, debt financing instruments of non-financial enterprises such as domestic medium-term notes issued in domestic market; unsecured bonds including bonds issued in Hong Kong by large state-owned enterprises and convertible bonds; overseas investment of foreign currency denominated funds in qualified term deposits, debt securities, shares of Chinese companies listed on specified overseas stock exchanges, shares of foreign companies listed on specified overseas stock exchanges and other overseas investment channels as approved by the CIRC; direct investment in shares of companies listed on the Chinese securities market, which are denominated and traded in Renminbi; and direct investment in equity interests of non-listed commercial Chinese banks, as well as indirect investments in Chinese infrastructure projects, all subject to various limitations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Insurance Company Regulation—Regulation of investments”. If the asset classes in which we are permitted to invest do not further expand in the future, we will be limited in our ability to improve our rate of return, which may materially and adversely impact our profitability. 12 Table of Contents The PRC securities markets are still emerging markets, which may expose us to risks of loss from our investments there We had RMB75,082 million (US$11,005 million) invested in equity securities, including securities investment funds and shares traded on the securities markets in China, as of December 31, 2008. These securities investment funds are primarily invested in equity securities that are issued by Chinese companies and traded on China’s securities exchanges. Some of our investments in securities investment funds are publicly traded, but we also invest in non-publicly traded securities investment funds. Beginning in March 2005, we are also permitted to directly invest in shares traded on the securities markets in China. The PRC securities markets are characterized by companies with relatively small market capitalizations and low trading volumes, and by evolving regulatory, accounting and disclosure requirements. For example, Chinese listed companies are required to adopt the new accounting standards issued by the MOF effective from January 1, 2007, and the share reform in connection with the conversion of non-tradable state-owned shares into tradable shares is still in progress. This may from time to time result in significant price volatility, unexpected losses or lack of liquidity. These factors could cause us to incur losses on our publicly traded investments. In addition, the PRC securities markets have recently experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price volatility. Also, as one of the largest institutional investors in China, we may from time to time hold significant positions in many securities in which we invest, and any decision to sell or any perception in the market that we are a major seller of a security could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of that security. Investments in new investment channels may not lead to improvements in our rate of investment return or we may incur losses As a Chinese life insurance company, we are subject to significant restrictions under current PRC insurance law and regulations on the asset classes in which we are permitted to invest. We understand that the CIRC is considering opening further investment channels to insurance companies. We will consider these alternative ways of investing once they become available to us. However, these new or potential investment channels are still undergoing evolving regulatory requirements. In addition, our experience with these new investment channels, especially overseas channels, might be limited. These factors could cause us to incur losses for our investments in these new investment channels or limit our ability to improve our rate of investment return. Differences in future actual claims results from the assumptions used in pricing and establishing reserves for our insurance and annuity products may materially and adversely affect our earnings Our earnings depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims results are consistent with the assumptions used in setting the prices for our products and establishing the liabilities in our financial statements for our obligations for future policy benefits and claims. Our assumptions include those for investment returns, mortality, morbidity, expenses and persistency, as well as macro-economic factors such as inflation. To the extent that trends in actual claims results are less favorable than our underlying assumptions used in establishing these liabilities, and these trends are expected to continue in the future, we could be required to increase our liabilities. Any such increase could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and, if significant, our financial condition. Any material impairment in our solvency margin could change our customers’ or our business associates’ perception of our financial health, which in turn could adversely affect our sales, earnings and operations. We establish the liabilities for obligations for future policy benefits and claims based on the expected payout of benefits, calculated through the use of assumptions for investment returns, mortality, morbidity, expenses and persistency, as well as certain macro-economic factors such as inflation. These assumptions are based on our previous experience, data published by other Chinese life insurers, as well as judgments made by the management. These assumptions may deviate from our actual experience, and, as a result, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle these liabilities or when these payments will need to be made. These amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically, based on changes in the assumptions used to 13 Table of Contents establish the liabilities, as well as on our actual policy benefits and claims results. We record changes in our liabilities in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for future policy benefits prove inadequate, we must increase our liabilities established for future policy benefits, which may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and our financial condition. We have data available for a shorter period of time than do insurance companies operating in some other countries and, as a result, less claims experience on which to base some of the assumptions used in establishing our reserves. For a discussion of how we establish our assumptions for mortality, morbidity and lapses, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies”. Given the limited nature of this experience, it is possible that our actual claims could vary significantly from the assumptions used. Our risk management and internal reporting systems, policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses or result in losses Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Many of our methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than what the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, a significant portion of business information needs to be centralized from our many branch offices. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Failure or the ineffectiveness of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business or result in losses. We are likely to offer a broader and more diverse range of insurance and investment products in the future as the insurance market in China continues to develop. At the same time, we anticipate that the relaxing of regulatory restraints will result in our being able to invest in a significantly broader range of asset classes. The combination of these factors will require us to continue to enhance our risk management capabilities and is likely to increase the importance of our risk management policies and procedures to our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to adapt our risk management policies and procedures to our changing business, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Catastrophes could materially reduce our earnings and cash flow We could in the future experience catastrophic losses that may have an adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of our insurance business. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including terrorist attacks, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires and epidemics, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. For example, the snow disaster in South China and Wen Chuan earthquake in 2008 increased our current claim payments. In 2008, our claims payments for the snow disaster and for the earthquake were approximately RMB11.916 million (US$1.747 million) and RMB153 million (US$22 million), respectively. We establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the exposure and damages arising from the event. We do not currently carry catastrophe reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe exposure. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on us. Current or future litigation and regulatory procedures could result in financial losses or harm our businesses We are involved in litigation involving our insurance operations on an ongoing basis. In addition, the CIRC, as well as other PRC governmental agencies, including tax, commerce and industrial administration and audit 14 Table of Contents bureaus, from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with PRC laws and regulations. These litigation and administrative proceedings have in the past resulted in payments of insurance benefits, damage awards, settlements or administrative sanctions, including fines, which have not been material to us. We currently have control procedures in place to monitor our litigation and regulatory exposure and take appropriate actions. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Regulatory Proceedings”. While we cannot predict the outcome of any pending or future litigation, examination or investigation, we do not believe that any pending legal matter will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, we cannot assure you that any future litigation or regulatory proceeding will not have an adverse outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal and Regulatory Proceedings”. The embedded value information we present in this annual report is based on several assumptions and may vary significantly as those assumptions are changed In order to provide investors with an additional tool to understand our economic value and business results, we have disclosed information regarding our embedded value, as discussed in the section entitled “Item 8. Financial Information—Embedded Value”. These measures are based on a discounted cash flow valuation determined using commonly applied actuarial methodologies. Standards with respect to the calculation of embedded value are still evolving, however, and there is no single adopted standard for either the form, determination or presentation of the embedded value of an insurance company. Moreover, because of the technical complexity involved in embedded value calculations and the fact that embedded value estimates vary materially as key assumptions are changed, you should read the discussion under the section entitled “Item 8. Financial Information—Embedded Value” in their entirety. You should use special care when interpreting embedded value results and should not place undue reliance on them. See also “Forward-Looking Statements”. Risks Relating to the PRC Life Insurance Industry We expect competition in the Chinese insurance industry to increase, which may materially and adversely affect the growth of our business We face competitive pressures from both domestic and foreign-invested life insurance companies operating in China, as well as from property and casualty insurance companies, which may compete with our accident and short-term health insurance businesses, and other financial institutions that sell other financial investment products in competition with ours. In addition, the establishment of other professional health insurance companies and pension annuities companies may also lead to greater competition in the health insurance business and commercial pension insurance business. If we are not able to adapt to these increasingly competitive pressures in the future, our growth rate may decline, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings. Competition among domestic life insurance companies is increasing Our closest competitors are Ping An Life Insurance Company of China, Ltd., or Ping An, and China Pacific Life Insurance Co. Ltd., or China Pacific Life. Together, Ping An, China Pacific Life and we accounted for more than 65% of the individual and group life insurance premiums in China in 2007, the last year for which official market information is available. According to statistical and market share information derived from China Insurance Yearbook, our market share of the individual life insurance premiums in China decreased from 45% in 2006 to 40% in 2007. Each of Ping An and China Pacific Life has operated in the Chinese insurance market for more than ten years, and each has a recognized brand name. Ping An had a greater market share than we did in Beijing in 2007. We also face competition from smaller insurance companies, which may develop strong positions in various regions in which we operate, and new entrants to the group life insurance market, including professional pension companies that are being established pursuant to a set of regulations promulgated by the 15 Table of Contents Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security of the PRC, and new entrants to the health insurance industry, including newly approved and established professional health insurance companies, following the adoption by the Chinese government of policies that encourage the development of health insurance and improved health care in China. Competition from foreign-invested life insurance companies is increasing, as restrictions on their operations in China are relaxed Foreign-invested life insurance companies are insurance companies in which foreign entities hold at least a 25.0% interest. Until December 11, 2004, foreign-invested life insurance companies were permitted to operate only in specified cities and may not offer group life insurance, health insurance and annuities or other pension-like products. As a result of these and other restrictions on foreign-invested life insurance companies operating in China, foreign-invested insurers accounted for less than 3% of the nationwide market share of life insurance products in 2004, although some have already gained significant market shares in the life insurance market in some areas in China. In Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, where foreign-invested insurers have been allowed to operate since 1992, 1995 and 1999, they had respective life insurance market shares of approximately 23%, 29% and 20% in 2007. However, these barriers to foreign insurers’ entry into the Chinese insurance market were phased out as a result of China’s accession to the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in December 2001, which has allowed foreign insurers to sell health, annuity and group life insurance products nationwide since December 2004. We believe that the relaxation of the restrictions on foreign-invested insurers will continue to increase the competitive pressures we are facing. Foreign-invested life insurance companies, through their Chinese and/or foreign shareholders, may have access to greater financial, technological or other resources than we do. We are likely to face increasing competition from property and casualty insurance companies and other companies offering products that compete with our own In addition to competition from life insurance companies, we face competition from other companies that may offer products that compete with our own, including: • Property and casualty companies. Beginning on January 1, 2003, property and casualty insurance companies have been permitted to sell accident and short-term health insurance products, but only with regulatory approval. There were 47 property and casualty insurers as of December 31, 2008. We believe property and casualty insurers have the competitive advantage of being able to bundle, or cross-sell, accident and health products with the other non-life insurance products that they are currently selling to their existing and potential customers. We believe this will lead to greater competition in the accident and health insurance sectors, especially for the group accident and short-term health insurance products we offer. On December 30, 2006, we established a property and casualty joint venture, CLPCIC, with CLIC. While this joint venture mainly focuses on property insurance business, it also develops accident and short-term health insurance business. Its operation may have a negative impact on sales of accident and short-term health insurance products by our wholly-owned businesses in the future. • Mutual fund companies, commercial banks and other financial services providers. We face competition from other financial services providers, primarily licensed mutual fund companies, commercial banks providing personal banking services and operating business of various financial products, trust companies and securities brokerage firms licensed to manage separate accounts. Recent changes in Chinese investment regulations relaxing rules on the formation of mutual funds and sales of securities have led to greater availability and variety of financial investment products. These products may prove to be attractive to the public and thereby adversely affect the sale of some products we offer, including participating life insurance policies and annuities. 16 Table of Contents All of our individual agents are required to obtain qualification certificates and all institutional insurance agencies are required to obtain permits and go through registration. If these qualification and registration requirements are enforced or result in policyholders canceling their policies, our business may be materially and adversely affected Individual life insurance agents, practitioners of institutional insurance agencies and insurance brokers are required to obtain a qualification certificate from the CIRC in order to conduct insurance agency business. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulatory and Related Matters—Regulation of Insurance Agencies, Insurance Brokers and Other Intermediaries”. Approximately 0.4% of our individual agents had not obtained such a certificate as of December 31, 2008. In May 2004, the CIRC issued a circular requiring insurance companies to take effective measures in carrying out the qualification certification requirement. In 2005, CIRC agencies in certain provinces started to enforce the CIRC qualification requirements. Furthermore, in April 2006, the CIRC issued regulations on administration of individual agents, effective on July 1, 2006, in order to further strengthen the administration of individual agents. Pursuant to these regulations, insurance companies that retain individual agents without CIRC qualification certificates and underwriting certificates to engage in insurance sales activities will be warned and fined up to RMB30,000, and the responsible member of senior management and other responsible personnel of such insurance companies will be warned and fined up to RMB10,000. In serious circumstances, the CIRC may order the insurance companies to remove the responsible member of senior management and other responsible personnel from office and reject the application of setting up branch offices by such insurance companies. In addition, the CIRC required that every individual agent must wear credentials showing specified information, including whether or not the agent is licensed, when conducting agency business. If more CIRC agencies were to enforce this regulation in the future, and if a substantial number of our agents do not become qualified, or if a substantial number of our policyholders who bought insurance policies through our unqualified exclusive agents were to cancel the policies because of this regulation, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we may be subject to fines and other administrative proceedings for the failure of our insurance agents to obtain the necessary CIRC qualification certificate. Any such fines or administrative proceedings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the current PRC insurance law, as amended in 2002, life insurance agents are required to be registered with and obtain business licenses from the local bureaus of the SAIC. It is our understanding that the SAIC does not have procedures in place to effect the registration and licensing of individual insurance agents. Consequently, as we believe is also the case with other insurance companies operating in China, substantially all of our individual agents are not in compliance with this requirement. To date, this non-compliance has not had a material adverse effect on CLIC or ourselves. The Regulations on the Administration of Insurance Salespersons issued by the CIRC in April 2006 do not have such requirement. The PRC insurance law, as amended in February 2009, which will take effect from October 1, 2009, has removed the dual requirement under the current PRC insurance law which requires individual insurance agents to receive qualification certificates issued by the CIRC and register with and obtain business licenses from the local bureaus of the SAIC. It only requires individual insurance agents to receive qualification certificates issued by the CIRC. For institutional insurance agents and insurance brokers, the 2009 PRC insurance law requires them to register with the administration of industry and commerce, and obtain business licenses with the permits issued by the CIRC. It also requires non-dedicated institutional insurance agencies to go through alteration registrations with the administration of industry and commerce with the permits issued by the CIRC. We cannot assure you that all of our institutional agents would obtain such licenses, and the enforcement of this requirement could adversely affect the composition and effectiveness of our individual agent distribution system, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The further development of regulations in China may impose additional costs and restrictions on our activities We operate in a highly regulated industry. The CIRC supervises and administers the insurance industry in China. In exercising its authority, it is given wide discretion to administer the law. China’s insurance regulatory 17 Table of Contents regime is undergoing significant changes toward a more transparent regulatory process and a convergent movement toward international standards. Some of these changes may result in additional costs or restrictions on our activities. The CIRC issued new regulations on the compilation of statutory actuarial report and the actuarial regulations of investment-linked insurance products and universal insurance products in 2007. These new regulations may further affect the determinations of our statutory reserves and solvency margin and hence our income under PRC GAAP. In addition, because the terms of our products are subject to regulations, changes in regulations may affect our profitability on the policies and contracts we issue. For instance, under guidelines issued by the CIRC, the dividends on our participating products must be no less than 70% of the distributable earnings from participating products in accordance with CIRC requirements. If this level were to be increased in the future, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to comply with minimum solvency requirements is affected by a number of factors, and our compliance may force us to raise additional capital, which could be dilutive to our existing investors, or to reduce our growth We are required by CIRC regulation to maintain our actual capital (or the “actual solvency margin”) at a level in excess of minimum capital (or the “minimum solvency margin”) levels. Our minimum capital is affected primarily by the policy reserves we are required to maintain which, in turn, are affected by the volume of policies and contracts we sell and by regulations on the determination of statutory reserves. Our solvency ratio is also affected by a number of other factors, including the profit margin of our products, returns on our investments, underwriting and acquisition costs and policyholder and shareholder dividends. Our solvency ratio as of December 31, 2008 was 310%. While our solvency ratio is currently above the required ratio of 100%, if we continue to grow rapidly in the future, or if the required minimum capital is raised in the future, we may need to raise additional capital to meet our solvency requirement, including through additional issuances of shares, which would be dilutive to our existing investors. If we are not able to raise additional capital, we may be forced to reduce the growth of our business. Risks Relating to the Restructuring CLIC has incurred substantial losses on the policies retained by it in the restructuring. If CLIC is unable to meet its obligations to its policyholders, it may seek to increase the level of dividends we pay, sell the China Life shares it owns or take other actions which may have a material adverse effect on the value of the shares our other existing investors own In connection with the restructuring, CLIC transferred to us (1) all long-term insurance policies (policies having a term of more than one year from the date of issuance) issued on or after June 10, 1999, having policy terms approved by or filed with the CIRC on or after June 10, 1999 and either (i) recorded as a long-term insurance policy as of June 30, 2003 in a database attached to the restructuring agreement as an annex or (ii) having policy terms for group supplemental medical insurance (fund type), (2) stand-alone short-term policies (policies having a term of one year or less from the date of issuance) issued on or after June 10, 1999, and (3) all riders supplemental to the policies described in clauses (1) and (2) above, together with the reinsurance contracts specified in an annex to the restructuring agreement. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Our Restructuring”. CLIC has incurred substantial losses on these non-transferred policies, primarily because the guaranteed rates it had committed to pay on these policies are higher than the investment return it was able to generate on its investment assets. This negative spread on non-transferred policies created substantial losses for CLIC and a resulting negative net worth. As of September 30, 2003, CLIC’s shareholders’ equity was a deficit of RMB251,661 million (US$31,184 million). The amount of accumulated undistributed profits of CLIC is expected to remain negative in the short term. In connection with the restructuring, CLIC has established, together with the MOF, a special purpose fund for the purpose of paying claims under the non-transferred policies. The special purpose fund will be funded by investment assets retained by CLIC; renewal premiums paid on the non-transferred policies over time; all of the 18 Table of Contents tax payments made by CLIC, China Life and AMC; profits from the investments of the special purpose fund; shareholder dividends paid in cash to CLIC by China Life; proceeds from the disposition of China Life shares by CLIC over time; and funds injected by the MOF in the event of a deficiency in the special purpose fund, as described below. The fund is co-administered by CLIC and the MOF. The special purpose fund will be available to satisfy CLIC’s operating expenses, including the payment of benefits and claims obligations arising from the non-transferred policies, as well as expenses incurred in operating the special purpose fund, including third-party management fees and professional fees, and such other purposes as the management committee of the fund may agree. The special purpose fund will be dissolved when all claims and benefits under the non-transferred policies have been paid, or sooner if the management committee so agrees. The MOF’s approval of the special purpose fund issued to CLIC provides that in the event there is any deficiency in the special purpose fund for so long as the fund is in existence, as described above, to meet any payment obligation arising out of the non-transferred policies, the MOF will provide support through the injection of funds to ensure the payments of benefits and claims to the policyholders of the non-transferred policies. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Our Restructuring—Transfer of Insurance Policies and Related Assets—Insurance policies retained by CLIC”. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, that (1) the MOF has the authority to issue this approval regarding the special purpose fund, (2) the approval is valid and effective, and (3) it has no reason to believe that the MOF will revoke the approval. We cannot assure you, however, that a court would decide in a manner consistent with King & Wood’s conclusions. We cannot predict the amount of funds that will be available to the special purpose fund from CLIC’s own operations to satisfy its obligations to its policyholders as they become due. CLIC’s cash requirements and available cash resources will be affected by several factors which are subject to uncertainty, including prevailing interest rates and the returns on investment generated by CLIC’s assets, as well as the claims, expenses and persistency experience with respect to CLIC’s insurance policies. The cash resources available to CLIC will also depend in part on our profitability, which will affect the amount of our tax payments and hence the amount of refund contributed to the fund, the timing and amount of our dividend payments and the market prices of our shares and ADSs, which will affect the proceeds to CLIC from dispositions of our shares. If it is unable to satisfy its obligations to its policyholders from other sources, CLIC may seek, subject to our articles of association and applicable laws, to increase the amount of dividends we pay in order to satisfy its cash flow requirements. Any such increase in our dividend payments would reduce the funds available for reinvestment in our business. In addition, if we are unable to pay dividends in amounts sufficient to satisfy these requirements, CLIC may seek to sell its shareholdings in us or take other actions in order to satisfy these needs. The sale of these holdings or even the market perception of such a sale may materially and adversely affect the price of our shares. The transfer of policies to us by CLIC and/or the separation of assets between CLIC and us may be subject to challenge We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, that (1) the transferred policies have been legally and validly transferred to China Life and (2) following the restructuring, we will not have any continuing obligations to holders of the non-transferred policies who remain policyholders of CLIC and that there is no legal basis on which holders of the non-transferred policies can make a claim against China Life. We also have been advised by King & Wood that, although there is no specific law applicable to restructurings, these conclusions are supported by, among other things, the approval of the restructuring and various related matters by the State Council, the MOF and the CIRC; the support provided by the MOF with respect to the non-transferred policies as described above; and contract and other law. We cannot assure you that policyholders of CLIC, holders of transferred policies or other parties will not seek to challenge the transfer of the transferred policies or the separation of assets occurring as a consequence of the restructuring, or that a court would decide in a manner consistent with King & Wood’s conclusions. If the transfer of policies to us or the separation of assets were challenged successfully, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We do not hold exclusive rights to the trademarks in the “China Life” name (in English and Chinese), the “ball” logos and other business related slogans and logos, and CLIC, which owns these trademarks, may take actions that would impair the benefits we derive from their use We conduct our business under the “China Life” brand name, the “ball” logos and other business related slogans and logos. CLIC owns these trademarks and has registered them with the Trademark Office of the SAIC. CLIC has entered into a trademark license agreement with us, under which CLIC has agreed to grant us and our branches a royalty-free license to use these trademarks. Although CLIC has undertaken in a non-competition agreement with us not to compete with us in China, without our prior consent in writing, in any life, accident and health insurance and any other businesses in China which may compete with our insurance business, CLIC, its subsidiaries and affiliates are permitted to use the brand name and logo in their own businesses, including life insurance business outside China and any other businesses they may enter into in the future within China, including property and casualty (other than businesses that compete with our accident and health businesses) and asset management businesses. In addition, they are not precluded from taking actions that may impair the value of the brand name, which could harm our business. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions —Trademark License Agreement” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Non-Competition Agreement”. The China Life brand name and our reputation could be materially harmed if CLIC fails to make payments when due on outstanding policies retained by CLIC in the restructuring or new policies written by CLIC after the restructuring, if CLIC reduces the rates of return payable on policies retained by CLIC or if CLIC is placed into receivership. As our controlling shareholder, CLIC will be able to exert influence on our affairs and could cause us to make decisions or enter into transactions that may not be in your best interests We are controlled by CLIC, whose interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, CLIC holds approximately 68.37% of our share capital. As a result of these factors, CLIC, which is wholly-owned by the PRC government, will, so long as it holds the majority of our shares, effectively be able to control the composition of our board of directors and, through the board, exercise a significant influence over our management and policies. In addition, subject to our articles of association and applicable laws, CLIC may, so long as it holds the majority of our shares, effectively be able to determine the timing and amount of our dividend payments and approve increases or decreases of our share capital, the issuance of new securities, amendments of our articles of association, mergers and acquisitions and other major corporate transactions. CLIC may also be able to prevent us effectively from taking actions to enforce or exercise our rights under agreements to which we are a party, including the agreements we entered into with CLIC in connection with the restructuring. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. As majority shareholder, CLIC may be able to take these actions without your approval. In addition, CLIC’s control could have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management that might be desirable to other shareholders. CLIC may direct business opportunities elsewhere CLIC has other business interests, including the run-off of the insurance policies retained by it in the restructuring. Notwithstanding a general undertaking pursuant to a non-competition agreement with us not to compete with us in our principal areas of business in China, CLIC is permitted to sell riders to these retained policies and enter into other businesses, including life insurance businesses outside of China and property and casualty (other than businesses that compete with our accident and health businesses) and asset management businesses, both inside and outside of China. We formed a property and casualty joint venture with CLIC, in connection with which we granted a waiver to CLIC allowing it to engage in accident and short-term health businesses indirectly through the property and casualty joint venture with us. CLIC is also engaged in the life insurance business in Shanghai through its joint venture with Colonial Mutual Group, an Australian financial 20 Table of Contents services company, of which CLIC owns 51.0% and which CLIC had agreed to dispose of prior to December 18, 2006. As of the date of this annual report, the transfer of CLIC’s equity interest in this joint venture is still ongoing. CLIC also may engage in insurance business in other regions outside of China in the future. Although it is required under the non-competition agreement to give us a right of first refusal over any business opportunities it develops in these areas, we may not be in a position to take advantage of these opportunities at that time, which could harm our business. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Non-Competition Agreement”. In addition, while we provide policy administration and other services to CLIC for the policies retained by CLIC in the restructuring, and provide investment management services to CLIC through our asset management subsidiary, these agreements can be terminated with notice or upon expiration in a limited number of years. If CLIC were to terminate its policy administration and asset management arrangements with us and our asset management subsidiary respectively, our loss of fees could materially and adversely affect us. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the extent of government involvement; • its level of development; • its growth rate; and • its control of foreign exchange. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. In 2008, China saw a decline in growth due to the global economic crisis, which prompted the Chinese government to take certain measures, including reducing the interest rate on one year term deposits, a key benchmark rate, from 4.14% to 2.25%, in an effort to encourage corporate and consumer spending. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China but may have a negative effect on our business. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by government monetary policies, tax policies, policies and regulations affecting the capital markets and asset management industry. A slowdown in Chinese growth rates could adversely affect us by impacting sales of our products, reducing our investment returns, or otherwise. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you We are organized under the laws of China and are governed by our articles of association. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on 21 Table of Contents subsequent cases and have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the Chinese legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with such economic matters as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Holders of H shares and ADSs generally are required to resolve disputes with us, our senior management and holders of our A shares only through arbitration in Hong Kong or China In accordance with the rules applicable to Chinese overseas listed companies, our articles of association provide that, with certain limited exceptions, all disputes or claims based on our articles of association, PRC company law or other relevant laws or administrative rules, and concerning matters between holders of H shares and ADSs and holders of A shares, us, or our directors, supervisors, president, vice presidents or other senior officers, must be submitted for arbitration at either the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission or the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center. If an applicant chooses to have the dispute arbitrated at the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center, either party may request that the venue be changed to Shenzhen, a city in China near Hong Kong. The governing law for any such disputes or claims is Chinese law, unless Chinese law itself provides otherwise. Pursuant to an arrangement of mutual enforcement of arbitration awards between the PRC courts and the Hong Kong courts, Hong Kong arbitration awards are enforceable in China. However, to our knowledge, no action has been brought in China by any holder of shares issued by a Chinese company to enforce an arbitral award. As a result, we are uncertain as to the outcome of any action brought in China to enforce an arbitral award made in favor of holders of H shares. The laws in China differ from the laws in the United States and may afford less protection to our minority shareholders Unlike laws in the United States, the applicable laws of China did not specifically allow shareholders to sue the directors, supervisors, officers or other shareholders on behalf of the company to enforce a claim against these parties that the company has failed to enforce itself until January 1, 2006, when the amendments to Chinese company law passed in 2005 became effective. Although the amended Chinese company law provides that shareholders, under certain circumstances, may sue the directors, supervisors and senior management on behalf of the company, no detailed implementation rules or court interpretations have been issued in this regard. Also, class action lawsuits are generally not available in China. In addition, PRC company law imposes limited obligations on a controlling shareholder with respect to protection of minority shareholders, although overseas listed joint stock companies, such as ourselves, are required to adopt certain provisions in their articles of association that are designed to protect minority shareholder rights. These mandatory provisions provide, among other things, that the rights of any class of shares, including H shares, may not be varied without a resolution approved by holders of shares in the affected class holding no less than two-thirds of the shares of the affected class entitled to vote, and provide that in connection with a merger or division involving our company, a dissenting shareholder may require us or the consenting shareholders to purchase the dissenters’ shares at a fair price. Disputes arising from these protective provisions would likely have to be resolved by arbitration. See “—Holders of H shares and ADSs generally are required to resolve disputes with us, our senior management and holders of our A shares only through arbitration in Hong Kong or China”. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in the PRC based on U.S. or other foreign laws against us, our management and some of the experts named in the annual report We are a company incorporated under the laws of China, and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our directors, supervisors, executive officers and some of the experts named in this annual report reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China 22 Table of Contents upon our directors, supervisors or executive officers or some of the experts named in this annual report, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel, King & Wood, has advised us that China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan or many other countries. Our Hong Kong legal adviser, Latham & Watkins, has also advised us that Hong Kong has no statutory arrangement for the reciprocal enforcement of judgments with the United States although it may be possible for a civil action to be brought in Hong Kong based on a monetary judgment of the courts of the United States. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China or Hong Kong of judgments of a court in the United States and any of the other jurisdictions mentioned above in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against us, our directors, supervisors, executive officers or the experts named in this annual report only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and our articles of association, and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. Holders of H shares may be subject to PRC taxation Under current PRC tax laws, regulations and rulings, dividends paid by us to individual holders of H shares outside of the PRC are exempt from PRC income tax. When paying dividends for the year of 2008 and each year thereafter to non-resident enterprise holders of H shares outside of the PRC, such dividends are subject to a dividend withholding tax, which is currently levied at a rate of 10%. Such non-resident enterprise holders of H shares may be entitled to tax reductions or exemptions according to relevant tax treaties. In addition, gains realized by individuals upon the sale or other disposition of H shares currently are exempt from PRC income tax. If the exemptions are withdrawn in the future, individual holders of H shares may be required to pay capital gains tax. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—The People’s Republic of China”. Government control of currency conversion and the fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our operations and financial results We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of these revenues must be converted into other currencies to allow us to make payments on declared dividends, if any, on our H shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with various procedural requirements. The Chinese government, however, may, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If this were to occur, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government introduced a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of currencies. On the same day, the value of the Renminbi appreciated by 2.0% against the U.S. dollar. Since then, the PRC government has made, and may in the future make, further adjustments to the exchange rate system. The PBOC announces the closing price of a foreign currency traded against the Renminbi in the inter-bank foreign exchange market after the closing of the market on each working day, and makes it the central parity for the trading against the Renminbi on the following working day. From July 21, 2005 to April 27, 2009, the Renminbi has appreciated by approximately 18.82%. We had approximately RMB907 million (US$133 million) foreign exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2008, resulting from our assets held in foreign currencies, which were affected by the appreciation of the Renminbi. Any devaluation of the Renminbi, on the other hand, may materially and 23 Table of Contents adversely affect the value of, and any dividends payable on, our H shares in foreign currency terms, since we will receive substantially all of our revenues, and express our profits, in Renminbi. Our financial condition and results of operations also may be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than the Renminbi. Payment of dividends is subject to restrictions under Chinese law Under Chinese law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits generally means our after-tax profits as determined under PRC GAAP or HKFRS, whichever is lower, less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that we are required to make, subject to further regulatory restrictions. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. However, ordinarily we will not pay any dividends in a year in which we do not have any distributable profits. The calculation of distributable profits for an insurance company under PRC GAAP differs in some respects from the calculation under HKFRS. As a result, we may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year if we do not have distributable profits as determined under PRC GAAP, even if we have profits for that year as determined under HKFRS. A strengthening in the statutory reserve requirements applicable to life insurance companies operating in China, which came into effect on December 31, 2003, led to a one-time adjustment to our PRC GAAP earnings in 2003. Payment of dividends by us is also regulated by the PRC insurance law. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Policy on Dividend Distributions”. The implementation of new accounting standard may affect our financial statements of the year 2009 and thereafter On August 7, 2008, the Ministry of Finance issued the No.2 Interpretation of Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises, which requires dual-listed companies to recognize, measure and report the same items with the same accounting policies and estimates unless exempted in the interpretation. According to the Notification on the Implementation of the No.2 Interpretation of Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises during 2008 Annual Report Preparation, issued by the Ministry of Finance on December 26, 2008, and the No.48 [2008] Announcement issued by the CSRC on December 28, 2008, listed companies that issued both A shares and H shares were required to take steps to remove the differences under different accounting standards and make appropriate disclosures in their 2008 annual reports. On January 5, 2009, the CIRC issued the Notification on the Implementation of the No.2 Interpretation of Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises in the Insurance Sector. According to this notification, when insurance companies prepare their 2009 financial reports, the accounting policies that cause differences in A share and H share financial reports will be modified. The implementation standard will be issued later. We are waiting for the implementation standards to evaluate the effect of the No.2 Interpretation of Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises. The full implementation of the No. 2 Interpretation of Accounting Standard of Business Enterprises may bring uncertainties to the reporting of our financial statements of the year 2009 and thereafter. 