Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Report before investing in our common stock. We have organized these risk factors into the following categories below. · our financial condition; · our products and operations; · our market, customers and partners; · our officers, directors and employees; · regulatory matters that affect our business; and · our securities. I. Risks associated with our financial condition. (1) We have had recurring losses from operations and might never achieve and maintain profitability. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $45.7 million, including a net loss of approximately $15.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We might not ever be able to achieve and maintain profitability. (2) Current conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve might materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and operating results might be adversely affected by worldwide economic conditions and, in particular, conditions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries we serve. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, shifts in consumer spending patterns, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our clients might experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential clients might delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services and might not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. For example, in December 2008, we had to pursue litigation against two former customers in excess of $500,000, as described in Item 3. Legal Precedings. Contract cancellations could affect our ability to fully recover our contract costs. If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is significant further deterioration in the global economy, our financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 8 (3) We might require additional financing to fund operations or potential acquisitions. If financing is not available, we might not be able to grow as we plan. At December 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling approximately $10.7 million and tangible assets of approximately $17.1 million. However, in the future, we might be required to seek additional financing to fund operations or potential acquisition opportunities. The recent downturn in the capital markets and the general economic slowdown could prevent us from raising additional capital or obtaining additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise sufficient capital, our ability to operate and to grow through acquisitions or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. (4) If we are able to raise capital, but not on favorable terms, existing stockholders might suffer dilution of their ownership interests or otherwise lose value in their securities. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or debt convertible into equity securities, the percentage of stock ownership by existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, such securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our stockholders, which could substantially decrease the value of our securities owned by them. (5) We depend on nonrecurring revenue streams and if we experience significant fluctuations in operating results and rate of growth and fail to balance expenses with revenue and earnings expectations, our revenue and margins might decrease and our stock price may fall. Due to our evolving business model and the unpredictability of the emerging industry, we might not be able to accurately forecast our rate of growth. We have historically depended on nonrecurring revenue derived from payments received for providing services for specific customer projects, which is recognized as work is performed over the term of the contracts for the projects. As a result, our operating results can fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. The volume of services required by customers depends in part upon the progress and results of clinical trials the customer is conducting during the quarter, which is outside our control. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of operating results might not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of our future performance. Because future revenues are unpredictable, we might not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenue falls short of expectations. This would substantially decrease our margins and our stock price. (6) Because we will recognize revenue over the terms of our agreements, downturns or upturns in sales might not be immediately reflected in operating results. We generally recognize revenue under the proportional performance method, spread over the terms of our agreements, typically several months to several years. As a result, much of the revenue we report each quarter was originally deferred from agreements entered into during previous quarters. While we will begin recognizing revenue upon the commencement of work after execution of agreements for software term licenses and related services, it might be difficult to rapidly increase revenue through additional new contract awards in any period. Further, a decline in new or renewed agreements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in a decline in the revenue in that quarter, but it might negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. II. Risks associated with our products and operations (7) We might not successfully develop or introduce new software applications or enhancements to existing software applications, which could result in lost business. Our future financial performance and revenue growth will depend, in part, upon the successful development, introduction, and customer acceptance of new software applications or new versions of existing software applications. Our business could be harmed if we fail to deliver enhancements desired by customers or to keep pace with changes in hardware and software platforms, database technology, and electronic commerce technical standards. From time to time, we have experienced delays in the planned release dates of software and upgrades. Such a delay could result in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of services and software applications, or customer claims against us, any of which could harm our business. 9 We also continually seek to develop new product and service offerings. However, we are subject to all of the risks inherent in software development, including unanticipated technical or other development problems, which could result in material delays in product introduction and acceptance or significantly increased costs. We might not be able to successfully develop new services or software applications, or to introduce in a timely manner and gain acceptance of such new services or software applications in the marketplace. (8) Defects in our software application-hosting service could diminish demand for our service and subject us to substantial liability, damage our reputation, or substantially decrease our revenue or margins or increase our expenses. Because our software application-hosting service is complex, it might have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using it, which could harm our reputation and business. Internet-based software frequently contains undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our software and new errors in our existing service might be detected in the future. Because customers use our software and service for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects or other performance problems with our service could damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, our reputation might be damaged and customers could elect not to renew our services, or delay or withhold payment, or make warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. Additionally, any errors, defects, or performance problems with our services could result in the loss of future sales or customers. (9) If we acquire companies, software applications, or technologies, we will face risks associated with those acquisitions including difficulty of integration, dilution of stockholder value and disruption of business, which could substantially decrease our revenue or margins or increase our expenses. In the future, we might acquire products or technologies from other companies, but might not realize anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions or investments. If any acquisition or investment is not perceived as improving earnings per share, our stock price would decline. In addition, we might incur non-cash amortization charges or other charges or expenses from acquisitions, which could harm operating results. Any completed acquisitions would also require significant integration efforts, diverting attention from existing business operations and strategy. We have made only small acquisitions to date, so our ability as an organization to make acquisitions or investments is unproven. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; · diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; · risk of entering new markets; · potential write-offs of acquired assets; · potential loss of key employees; · inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; · risks associated with intellectual property claims; · delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty; · risk of operating and integrating geographically remote offices; · risk of losing customers of the acquired companies due to actual or perceived changes in operations and customer interfaces; and · risks of implementing and monitoring compliance with corporate governance and public company reporting requirements and the ability of management to manage and timely and accurately consolidate the results of operations. 10 As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our revenue and margins might substantially decrease or our expenses increase. (10) We rely on third-party hardware and software that might be difficult to replace or which could cause errors or failures in service, which would harm our relationship with customers. We rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties in order to offer our service. We use commercially available software from vendors like Microsoft, Oracle and Business Objects. In addition, our products include numerous third-party licensed components. These software and hardware systems, as well as any third party embedded components, will need periodic upgrades in the future as part of normal operation of business, which will be an added expense. The hardware and software we use, including third party embedded components, might not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or upgrades might not be available when we need them. Certain of the databases and libraries included in our products could not easily be replaced and any change in these components would require additional development efforts on our part. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in providing our services until we develop equivalent technology or, if already available, such equivalent technology is identified, obtained and integrated. Any errors or defects in, or unavailability of, third-party hardware or software could result in errors or a failure of our service, which could harm our relationships with customers. Additionally, we serve all of our application-hosting customers from third-party web hosting facilities in North Carolina and Kentucky. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption. Although we maintain redundant systems that can be used to provide service in the event the third-party web hosting facilities become unavailable, in such circumstances, our service might be interrupted during the transition. (11) Security and other concerns might discourage use of our internet based software, which could significantly reduce revenues. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to one of our customers’ data, our reputation will be damaged, our business might suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we might not be able to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. III. Risks associated with our market, customers and partners (12) We have several large clients from which we derive substantial revenue; the loss of even a few of our clients could significantly reduce our revenues. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of clients. Our top two clients accounted for approximately 29% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 28% in 2008. If we lose one of these clients or other significant clients and do not replace them with new clients, our revenues will decrease and may not be sufficient to cover our costs. (13) Price controls on what our clients charge might cause our clients to decrease their purchases of information technology, including our software and services, and might pressure us to decrease prices. The prices our clients charge for their pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls in many countries and there is increasing pressure for greater price controls in the United States. Controls on what our clients charge might cause our clients to decrease their purchases of information technology, including our software and services. This could substantially decrease the size of our market and impact our ability to sell products and services or force us to reduce our profit margins. 11 (14) We depend entirely on the clinical trial market, and a downturn in this market could cause our revenues to decrease. Our business depends entirely on the clinical trials that pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies conduct. Our revenues could decline if there is less competition in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries, which would result in fewer products under development and decreased pressure to accelerate a product approval. Our revenues could also decline if the FDA or similar agencies in foreign countries loosen their requirements, thereby decreasing the complexity of conducting clinical trials. Any other developments that adversely affect the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device industries generally, including product liability claims, new technologies or products or general business conditions, could also decrease the volume of our business. (15) We will lose revenue if our clients experience delays in clinical trials or if we lose contracts. Consequently, contracts we have signed might not result in our collecting or recognizing the amount of revenue stated in the contracts. Although our contracts provide that we are contractually entitled to receive fees for services provided through the date of termination, customers generally are free to delay or terminate a clinical trial or their contract related to the trial at any time. The length of a typical clinical trial contract varies from several months to several years. Clinical trial sponsors may delay or terminate clinical trials for several reasons, including: · unexpected results or adverse patient reactions to a potential product; · inadequate patient enrollment or investigator recruitment; · manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of a potential product; · decisions by the sponsor to de-emphasize or terminate a particular trial or drug; or · adjustments of our multi-year subscription license agreements. We will lose revenues if a clinical trial sponsor decides to delay or terminate a trial in which we participate. Consequently, contracts we have signed might not result in collecting or recognizing the amount of revenue stated in the contracts. We have experienced terminations and delays of our customer service contracts in the past and expect to experience additional terminations and delays in the future. (16) We face significant competition, which could cause us to lose business or have lower margins. The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. The direct competition we face depends on the market segment focus and delivery model capabilities of our competitors. We also at times have to overcome customer reluctance to move away from existing paper-based systems. We have three primary categories of competitors: larger technology and services companies that provide their offerings to both the pharmaceutical industry and contract research organizations that support them; large clinical research organizations that provide their own proprietary data collection and other services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies; and smaller applications software companies that license software to perform these functions. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources, greater name recognition, and a larger total number of customers for their products and services than we do. These competitors might also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products, than we. In addition, we anticipate new competitors will enter the market in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins, and change in market share and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. New product announcements by competitors might make it difficult to sell our products even before the competitor releases the product. (17) We face risks associated with former employees competing with our business and the related litigation that aims to prevent them from using our confidential, proprietary and or non-public data. On January 6, 2009, we filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of Wake County, North Carolina, etrials Worldwide, Inc. v. Robert Sammis and Brendon Ball, File No. 09-CVS-00275, against our former Chief Operating Officer and Vice President of Client Services, Robert Sammis, and our former Director of Product Development, Brendon Ball, to enforce Confidentiality Agreements that they signed while at etrials and to prevent the disclosure or unauthorized use of confidential or non-public information of etrials in connection with the employment of Sammis and Ball at Unithink, Inc., a direct competitor of etrials. 12 Although the court issued us a preliminary injunction against the defendants, we still face the risk that they or anyone acting in concert or participating with them (including Unithink) might make customers delay or not make purchases from us, use our confidential information against us or legitimately compete effectively with us. Additionally, litigation can be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain in ultimate result. Even if we continue our success in this litigation, our business might be materially and adversely harmed nevertheless. (18) There are risks associated with international operations, which we expect will become a bigger part of our business in the future. We plan to conduct greater international operations in the future as companies move more of their clinical trial operations off-shore. These international operations are subject to a number of difficulties and special costs, including: government regulations; trade restrictions; costs of customizing software products for foreign countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; uncertain regulation of electronic commerce; compliance with multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations; longer sales cycles; greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; import and export restrictions and tariffs; potentially weaker protection for our intellectual property than in the United States, and practical difficulties in enforcing such rights abroad; difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; and political and economic instability. Our international operations will also face foreign currency-related risks. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in United States dollars, but we believe that an increasing portion of our revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies. We must also customize our services and software applications for international markets. This process is much more complex than merely translating languages. Any variation in laws or practices from one country to another might substantially decrease the value of our software applications in that country, unless we identify the important differences and customize our software applications to address the differences. The agreements that we sign with clients outside the United States might be governed by the laws of the countries where we provide our software applications and services. We might also need to resolve any disputes under these agreements in the courts or other dispute resolution forums in those countries. Our international operations also increase exposure to international laws and regulations, which are often complex. IV. Risks associated with our officers, directors and employees (19) Any failure to adequately expand our direct sales force or to compensate sales personnel in appropriate ways will result in our being understaffed, which could reduce our sales and revenues. We expect to be substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with advanced sales skills and technical knowledge. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and, in some cases, might take more than a year before they achieve full productivity. Our existing personnel and planned hires might not become as productive as we would like, and we might not be able to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. We also must develop compensation packages that properly incentivize successful sales, including both selling to new customers and increasing sales to existing customers. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel, or develop compensation packages that properly incentivize successful sales, then we might not be able to maintain an adequate sales force, and the sales of our services could suffer. 13 (20) Because competition for our target employees is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. If this occurs, we might not be able to increase our sales or provide services to our customers. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services and senior sales executives, as well as people with clinical trial and related health care industry experience. Personnel with experience in both software and health care industries are in high demand by other employers. We might not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Significant volatility in the price of our stock, therefore, might adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Many of our officers and employees have stock options whose exercise prices are higher than the current market price of our Common Stock, which significantly reduces the value of our stock options as an employee retention tool. Furthermore, the recent changes in policies regarding the accounting for stock options might discourage us from granting the size or type of stock options awards that job candidates require to join the company. If job candidates do not join the company, we might not be able to increase our sales or provide services to our customers. (21) Our executive management team is critical to the execution of our business plan and the loss of their services could severely impact our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management to provide strategic direction, develop business, manage our operations, and maintain a cohesive and stable work environment. We hired a number of new senior employees during 2008, including M. Denis Connaghan, our Chief Executive Officer, and Joseph F. Trepanier III, our Chief Financial Officer. These new employees’ integration into our company has been and will continue to be critical to our success. Although we have employment agreements with most of our executives, they do not assure that any executive with whom we have an employment agreement will remain with us. We do not have employment agreements with all of our key personnel. Losing any one of our officers could seriously harm our business. Competition for executives is intense. If we have to replace any of our officers, we would not be able to replace the significant amount of knowledge that they have about our operations. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on anyone. V. Regulatory matters that affect our business (22) Extensive governmental regulation of the clinical trial process could require costly modifications to our products, adversely affect prospective clients’ willingness to use our software products and services and increase competition and reduce our market share. We might incur increased expenses or suffer a reduction in revenues, if our software products and services do not comply with applicable government regulations or if regulations allow more competition in the market place. The FDA has published regulations and guidelines addressing a broad range of matters relating to the use of computerized systems to collect, manage and analyze data from clinical trials. Moreover, electronic data entry, management and analysis of medical information pertaining to subjects in clinical trials will be subject to state and federal government regulations that are not yet finalized. Conforming our products and services to these guidelines or to future changes in regulation could substantially increase our expenses. In the United States and in foreign countries, regulatory authorities also have established other standards for conducting clinical trials leading to the approval of new products with which we must comply. We are either directly or indirectly subject to, or affected by, these regulations, because our software products and services assist sponsors and contract research organizations in conducting trials and preparing new drug or device applications. If a regulatory authority concludes that trials were not conducted in accordance with established requirements, it might take a variety of enforcement actions depending upon the nature of the violation and the applicable country. In the United States, these measures might range from issuing a warning letter or seeking injunctive relief or civil penalties to recommending criminal prosecution, which could result in a prohibition of our continued participation in clinical trials. (23) Changes in government regulations relating to the health care industry could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services, and substantially reduce our revenue. Demand for our services is largely a function of the regulatory requirements associated with the approval of a New Drug Application by the FDA. These requirements are more stringent and thus more burdensome than those imposed by many other developed countries. In recent years, efforts have been made to streamline the drug approval process and coordinate U.S. standards with those of other developed countries. Changes in the level of regulation, including a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures could reduce the demand for our services. 14 The FDA’s guidelines and rules related to the use of computerized systems in clinical trials are still in the early stages of development. Our products and services might not continue to comply with these guidelines and rules as they develop, and corresponding changes to our products and services might be required. Any release of FDA guidance that is significantly inconsistent with the design of our products and services might cause us to incur substantial costs to remain in compliance with FDA guidance and regulations. Our products and service offerings might not comply with applicable regulations and regulatory guidelines as they develop. If our products or services fail to comply with any applicable government regulations or guidelines, we could incur significant liability or be forced to cease offering applicable products or services. (24) Current trends indicate our customers have higher risks of product liability and similar claims related to how they conduct clinical trials and analyze information from clinical trials both before and after drugs are sold in the market. This higher risk could result in product liability claims relating to our software applications or services. Current trends indicate our customers have higher risk of product liability and similar claims related to how they conduct clinical trials and analyze information from clinical trials both before and after drugs are sold in the market. Any failure or errors in a customer’s clinical trial or adverse event reporting obligations caused or allegedly caused by our software applications or services could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by our customers or the clinical trial participants, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although our contracts with customers generally provide that we are entitled to indemnification against claims brought against us by third parties arising out of our customers’ use of our software applications, we might find ourselves entangled in lawsuits that, even if we prevail, divert our resources and energy and adversely affect our business. Further, a court might not enforce our indemnification right or the customer might not be able to fund any amounts for indemnification owed to us. Our insurance policies to cover claims against us might not be adequate or continue to be available on reasonable terms, and the insurer might disclaim coverage. (25) Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations might reduce the effectiveness of our services and products, which could substantially reduce our revenue. Our customers can use our service to store contact and other personal or identifying information regarding their customers, contacts and clinical trial participants. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers might limit the use and adoption of our service and reduce overall demand for it. Furthermore, privacy concerns might cause our customers’ customers to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our service effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, might inhibit market adoption of our services. The European Union has also adopted a data privacy directive that requires member states to impose restrictions on the collection and use of personal data that, in some respects, are far more stringent, and impose more significant burdens on subject businesses, than current privacy standards in the United States. All of these domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives might adversely affect our customers’ ability to collect and/or use demographic and personal information from their customers, which could reduce demand for our service. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various self-regulatory standards that might place additional burdens on us. If the gathering of personal information were to be curtailed in this manner, certain of our services and products would be less effective, which might reduce demand for them. If demand for our products decreases due to privacy concerns, our revenue might be reduced substantially. (26) Evolving regulation of the Internet might either reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our services and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet might also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could either reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. 15 (27) Our ability to protect our intellectual property is limited. We have been sued for patent infringement and our products might be subject to other infringement claims by third parties. We do not own any issued patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties might attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, and third parties might attempt to develop similar technology independently. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software or other transmitted data. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor use of our products as we increase our international presence. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have been contacted by companies seeking to license their software or patents to us. Infringement claims could result in litigation or settlements that result in us acquiring licenses from third parties. Our technologies might not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management attention from executing our business plan. In addition, our agreements often require us to indemnify our partners and customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost of an adverse ruling in such a claim. VI. Risks Related to Our Securities (28) Our outstanding stock options might be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. This might substantially decrease the market price of the common stock. We have outstanding stock options to purchase approximately 1.8 million shares of our common stock . To the extent they are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued that will be eligible for resale in the public market, which will result in dilution to our stockholders. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of such shares. (29) We might not continue to meet NASDAQ listing requirements, which could result in our delisting, limiting the liquidity of our securities. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market, which has qualitative and quantitative listing criteria, including operating results, net assets, corporate governance, minimum trading price and minimums for public float, which is the amount of stock not held by affiliates of the issuer. Although NASDAQ has temporarily halted delisting procedures for certain of these criteria in light of current market conditions, we are at risk of delisting in the future. If for any reason, our securities are not eligible for continued quotation on the NASDAQ, purchasers of our securities might have difficulty selling their securities should they desire to do so. (30) Fluctuations in the stock market as well as general economic, market and industry conditions might harm the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuation. The stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that, at times, have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations might harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We believe that some of the information in this document constitutes forward-looking statements within the definition of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed in this Report, particularly in “Risk Factors.” You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “might,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “contemplate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intends,” and “continue” or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: • discuss future expectations; 16 • contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition; or • state other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our stockholders. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to predict accurately or over which we have no control. The risk factors and cautionary language discussed in this Report provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations described by us in our forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Report. All forward-looking statements included herein attributable to any of us, or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Except to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations, we undertake no obligations to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 