Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition. You should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other Company communications. Because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following. 20 Table of Contents We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a small number of customers. If one or more of our top five customers were to cease doing business with us, or to substantially reduce its dealings with us, our revenues and earnings could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived approximately 19.6% of our total revenues from our five largest customers. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. No customers accounted for more than 10% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. The loss of any of our largest customers or a decision by one of them to purchase our services at a reduced level could negatively impact our revenues, earnings and business. The contracts with our five largest customers contain minimum transaction or revenue commitments on an annual or contract term basis. Upon meeting these commitments, the customers are no longer obligated to purchase services from us and may elect not to make further use of our services. In addition, our customers may elect not to renew their contracts when they expire. Even if contracts are renewed, the renewal terms may be less favorable to us than under the current contracts. The contracts with our five largest customers expire from 2012 to 2014. We face significant pressure on the prices for our services from our competitors and customers. Our failure to sustain pricing could impair our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Our competitors and customers have caused and may continue to cause us to reduce the prices we charge for services. We may not be able to offset the effects of these price reductions by increasing the number of transactions we transport using our networks or by reducing our costs. The primary sources of pricing pressure include: •Competitors offering our customers services at reduced prices. For example, telecommunications carriers may reduce the overall cost of their services by bundling their data networking services with other services such as voice communications. •Payments and telecommunication services customers seeking greater pricing discounts during contract negotiations in exchange for maintaining or increasing their minimum transaction or revenue commitments. •Consolidation of existing customers resulting in pricing reductions. For example, one of our customers with relatively lower contract prices may acquire another of our customers, enabling the acquired customer's services to receive the benefit of the lower prices. In addition, if an existing customer acquires another customer, the combined transaction volume may qualify for reduced pricing under our contract. Further, consolidation among our customers may cause us to reduce prices in order to avoid losing these customers. Our businesses are highly dependent upon our customers' transaction volumes and connections to our network, as well as our ability to expand into new markets. We already serve most of the largest payment processors in the United States and Europe. Accordingly, our payment services division is highly dependent on the number of transactions transmitted by our existing customers through our networks in the United States and the United Kingdom. Factors which may reduce the number of credit and debit card and ATM transactions include economic downturns, acts of war or terrorism and other events that reduce consumer spending. Revenues from PSD have decreased primarily as a result of a decline in transaction volumes which we attribute to the continued softness in the economy and its impact on small mid-size merchants, as well as a decrease in revenue per transaction as a result of negotiated price reductions upon renewal of certain contracts. We may be unable to increase our business from IP-based network services as well as our Payment gateway service offerings that we have identified as potential sources of future growth for our Payments 21 Table of Contents business in the United States and abroad. Factors that may interfere with our ability to expand further into these areas include: •market participants' adoption of alternative technologies; and •our potential inability to enter into commercial relationships with additional market participants. Our Telecommunications Services business is also dependent on our customers' transaction volumes. In the past, consolidation among our TSD customers has caused us to lose transaction volume. In addition, certain of our TSD customers have developed in-house solutions to replace part or all of the services we provide to them. In the future, consolidation among our customers or the decision by existing customers to deploy in-house solutions to replace our services could cause us to lose volume and our revenues to decline. The business of our financial services division is dependent upon the number of financial services companies connected to our network and the number of trading partners our customers connect to using our network. In the past industry consolidation and the economic downturn have caused companies to trade with fewer entities connected to our network or to disconnect connections on our network. Future consolidation or the decision by existing customers to disconnect connections to our network could cause our revenues to decline. Our efforts to integrate recent or future acquisitions into our operations could be disruptive, and we may not be able to successfully integrate them on a timely basis. Even if we are able to successfully integrate an acquisition into our operations, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition on the timetable contemplated, or at all. Recent or future acquisitions could negatively affect our operating results and could dilute the interests of existing stockholders. In October 2010 we acquired Cequint, Inc., a Seattle based company providing caller identification services to wireless operators. Cequint currently provides City ID®, a caller identification feature for some wireless operators that automatically displays on the wireless handsets of customers of those operators the city and state in which the caller's phone number is registered. In July 2011, Cequint launched Name ID, a new product that enables mobile operators to deploy carrier-grade caller name identification in mobile phones. We have begun to integrate the City ID® and Name ID application to be pre-loaded onto the handsets of wireless operators. This integration may prove to be more difficult and may take longer than we currently anticipate for the application to work as intended, which could result in the Cequint business failing to meet expectations. Furthermore, we may experience unanticipated difficulties and delays in the process of having wireless operators request and ensure that our applications are pre-loaded onto their wireless handsets by their manufacturers. Even if we are successful in integrating our service and having the applications pre-loaded onto wireless operator's handsets, our anticipated revenues from such service are highly dependent on adoption rates by the customers of the wireless operators and the revenue share and pricing to be determined for such application by the wireless operators. We may fail to achieve the revenues anticipated from this Cequint acquisition despite incurring substantial costs of the business, which may adversely affect our future financial position, results of operations, and customer relationships. In addition, we expect to continue to seek selective acquisitions and investments as an element of our growth strategy. Recent and future acquisitions could subject us to risks including: •If we are not able to successfully integrate acquired businesses in a timely manner, our operating results may decline, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the completion of such transactions while the operations of the acquired entities are being integrated into our operations. We also may incur substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems during the integration process. 22 Table of Contents •Acquisitions could result in large, immediate write-offs and assumption of contingent liabilities, either of which could harm our operating results. •Acquisitions may divert the attention of senior management from our existing business. •Additional indebtedness incurred to finance acquisitions is likely to increase our interest expense, and new debt agreements may involve new restrictive covenants that could reduce our flexibility in managing our business. •If we issue additional equity to finance our acquisitions or investments, it could result in dilution for our existing stockholders. Our strategy to expand internationally may fail, which may impede our growth and harm our operating results. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we did not generate positive operating cash flows in 5 out of the 25 countries in which we have operations and provide services outside of North America. In addition, we are planning expansion into new and existing international markets. Key challenges we will face in pursuing our international strategy include the need to: •secure commercial relationships to help establish our presence in international markets, •obtain telecommunications services from incumbent telecommunication service providers that may compete with us, •adapt our services to support varying telecommunications protocols that differ from those markets where we have established operations, •hire and train personnel capable of marketing, installing and integrating our data communications services, supporting customers and managing operations in foreign countries, •localize our products to target the specific needs and preferences of foreign customers, which may differ from our traditional customer base in the United States and United Kingdom, •build our brand name and awareness of our services among foreign customers, •implement new systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in new markets, and •obtain licenses or authorizations that may be required to sell our services internationally. If we fail to address the challenges and risks associated with international expansion, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, which could impede our growth or harm our operating results. We are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: •multiple, changing and often inconsistent enforcement of telecommunications, foreign ownership and other laws and regulations that could have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, •competition with existing market participants which have a longer history in and greater familiarity with the foreign markets we enter, •laws and business practices that favor local competitors, •fluctuations in currency exchange rates, •imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries, •changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, •longer payment cycles for customers in some foreign countries, 23 Table of Contents •difficulty and expense associated with enforcement of agreements and collection of receivables through legal systems in some foreign countries, and •difficulty and expense associated with managing a large organization spread throughout numerous foreign countries. We face risks related to movements in foreign exchange rates that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our revenues and earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared with foreign currencies, predominantly the Euro, the British Pound and the Australian dollar as the functional currency of each of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. To the extent that the U.S. dollar appreciates in value against these currencies, the reported value of our revenues, earnings and financial position may be materially adversely affected. We conduct business in many international markets with complex and evolving tax rules, which subjects us to international tax compliance risks. While we obtain advice from tax and legal advisors as necessary to help ensure compliance with tax and regulatory matters, most tax jurisdictions in which we operate have complex and subjective rules regarding the valuation of inter-company services, cross-border payments between affiliated companies and the related effects on the taxes to which we are subject, including income tax, value-added tax and transfer tax. From time to time, our foreign subsidiaries are subject to tax audits and may be required to pay additional taxes, interest or penalties should the taxing authority assert different interpretations, or different allocations or valuations of our services. There is a risk, if one or more taxing authorities significantly disagrees with our interpretations, allocations or valuations, that any additional taxes, interest or penalties which may result could be material and could reduce our income and cash flow from our international subsidiaries. Our dependence on third-party providers for network connectivity, network equipment, software, hardware, maintenance and hosting or co-location services exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. To deliver our services successfully, we depend on network connectivity, network equipment, software, hardware, maintenance, and hosting or co-location services supplied by our vendors and customers. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to purchase all of these necessary components of our services from these third-party vendors on acceptable terms or at all. Our third-party vendors have increased and in the future may increase the prices charged for their services, which have increased and would further increase our costs. Our business also depends on the capacity, reliability and security of the network infrastructure owned and managed by third parties, including our vendors and customers. Our payments services, telecommunication services, and financial services, including technology interoperability services, payment processing services, network services, database services, call signaling and roaming and clearing services, all depend to some extent on the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure of third parties. We have no control over the operation, quality, or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure and whether these third parties will upgrade or improve their equipment, software and services to meet our and our customers' evolving requirements. We depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our services. If one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of services to us in the future, our operations and customer services could be negatively impacted or severely interrupted. 24 Table of Contents Our customers may develop in-house networks or direct connections and divert part or all of their data communications from our network to their networks. As a payment processor's business grows larger and generates a greater number of credit card and debit card transactions, it could become economically advantageous for the processor to develop its own network for transmitting transaction data, including credit card and debit card transactions. Currently, some of the largest processors and some very large merchants globally, such as supermarkets, department stores and major discount stores, operate their own networks to transmit some or all of their transactions. Also, as the number of outsourced providers of network services has decreased, payment processors and large merchants have developed, and may continue to seek to develop, their own networks in order to maintain multiple sources of supply. In addition, our telecommunication services division customers may elect to connect their call signaling networks directly to the call signaling networks of other telecommunications carriers, thus decreasing their need for our services. As a result of any of these events, we could experience lower revenues. System failures or slowdowns, security breaches and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and revenue, and expose us to customer liability. Our business is based upon our ability to securely, rapidly and reliably receive and transmit data through our networks. One or more of our networks could slow down significantly or fail, or be breached, for a variety of reasons, including: •failure of third party equipment, software or services utilized by us, •undetected defects or errors in our software programs, especially when first integrated into a network, •unexpected problems encountered when integrating changes, enhancements or upgrades of third party equipment or software with our systems, •computer viruses, •natural or man-made disasters disrupting power or telecommunications systems generally, and •damage to, or failure of, our systems due to human error or intentional disruption such as physical or electronic break-in, sabotage, acts of vandalism and similar events. We may not have sufficient redundant systems or backup telecommunications facilities to allow us to receive and transmit data in the event of significant system failures. Any significant security breach degradation or failure of one or more of the networks on which we rely, including the networks of our vendors and customers could disrupt the operation of our network and cause our customers to suffer delays in transaction processing, which could damage our reputation, increase our service costs, or cause us to lose customers and revenues. Our customers' inability to successfully implement our services could negatively impact our business. Significant technological challenges may arise for our customers when they implement our services. Our customers' ability to support the deployment of our services and integrate them successfully within their operations depends, in part, on our customers' technological capabilities and the level of technological complexity involved. Difficulty in deploying our services could increase our customer service support costs, delay the recognition of revenues received until the services are implemented and reduce our operating margins. 25 Table of Contents Our capacity limits on current network and application platforms may be difficult to manage and project, and we may not be able to expand or upgrade our systems to meet increased demand or use. As customers' usage of our services increase, we will need to expand our network and application platforms. We may not be able to accurately project the rate of increase in usage of our services. In addition, we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems, networks, and application platforms in a timely manner to accommodate increased usage of our services. If we do not timely and appropriately expand and upgrade our systems, networks, and application platforms, we may limit our ability to add new customers or lose customers and our operating performance may suffer. We depend on a limited number of network equipment suppliers and do not have supply contracts. Our inability to obtain necessary network equipment or technical support could harm our business. Some key components we use in our networks are available only from a limited number of suppliers. The number of available suppliers of components and technical support for our SS7 and X.25 networks are particularly limited. We do not have long-term supply contracts with these or any other limited source vendors, and we purchase data network equipment on a purchase order basis. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of limited source equipment and required technical support, or to develop alternate sources as required in the future, our ability to deploy equipment in our networks could be delayed or reduced, or we may be forced to pay higher prices for our network components. Delays or reductions in supplies could lead to slowdowns or failures of our networks. We may experience fluctuations in quarterly results because of the seasonal nature of our business and other factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Credit card and debit card transactions account for a major percentage of the transaction volume processed by our customers. The volume of these transactions on our networks generally is greater in the fourth quarter holiday season than during the rest of the year. Consequently, revenues and earnings from credit card and debit card transactions in the first quarter generally are lower than revenues and earnings from credit card and debit card transactions in the fourth quarter of the immediately preceding year. We expect that our operating results in the foreseeable future will be significantly affected by seasonal trends in the credit card and debit card transaction market. In addition, a variety of other factors may cause our results to fluctuate from one quarter to the next, including but not limited to: •varying costs incurred for network expansion, •the impact of quarterly variations in general economic conditions, •acquisitions made or customers acquired or lost during the quarter, •changes in pricing policy by us, our competitors and our third party supplier and service providers during a particular quarter, and •foreign currency translation rates, in particular the British pound, Euro and Australian dollar. We may not be able to adapt to changing technology and our customers' technology needs. We face rapidly changing technology and frequent new service offerings by competitors that can render existing services obsolete or unmarketable. Our future success depends on our ability to enhance existing services and to develop, introduce and market, on a timely and cost effective basis, new services that keep pace with technological developments and customer requirements. 26 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology, which would allow competitors to duplicate our services. This would make it more difficult for us to compete with them. We may not be able to protect sufficiently our proprietary technology, which could make it easier for competitors to develop services that compete with our services. We rely principally on copyright and trade secret laws and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. The laws of some countries in which we sell our services and products may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If these measures do not adequately prevent misappropriation of our technology, competitors may be able to use and adapt our technology. Our failure to protect our technology could diminish our competitive advantage and cause us to lose customers to competitors. We may face claims of infringement of proprietary rights, which could harm our business and operating results. Third parties may assert claims that we are infringing their proprietary rights. If infringement claims are asserted against us, we could incur significant costs in defending those claims. We may be required to discontinue using and selling any infringing technology and services, to expend resources to develop non-infringing technology or to purchase licenses or pay royalties for other technology. We may be unable to acquire licenses for the other technology on reasonable commercial terms or at all. As a result, we may find that we are unable to continue to offer the services and products upon which our business depends. We may not have adequate resources to meet demands resulting from growth. Growth may strain our management systems and resources. We may need to make additional investments in the following areas: •recruitment and training, •communications and information systems, •sales and marketing, •facilities and other infrastructure, •treasury and accounting functions, •licensing and acquisition of technology and rights, and •employee and customer relations and management. If we fail to develop systems, procedures and controls to handle current and future growth on a timely basis, we may be less efficient in the management of our business or encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, either of which could harm our results of operations. We may lack the capital required to maintain our competitive position or to sustain our growth. We have historically relied on cash flow from operations and proceeds from equity and debt to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may face the following risks: •We may not be able to continue to meet customer demand for service quality, availability and competitive pricing. •We may not be able to expand rapidly internationally or to acquire complementary businesses. •We may not be able to develop new services or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or unanticipated competitive pressures. 27 Table of Contents Our level of debt could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2011, we had $373.1 million in debt outstanding, which was subsequently refinanced in February 2012 (the February 2012 Credit Facility). The February 2012 Credit Facility includes a $350.0 million term loan and a five-year revolving credit facility, under which $25.0 million was drawn at closing. This level of debt could have important consequences. Below, we have identified some of the material potential consequences resulting from this debt: •A significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the repayment or servicing of indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash we have available for other purposes, including reinvestment in the company. •We may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. •Our ability to adjust to changing market conditions may be hampered. •We may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors. •We may be vulnerable to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions and, to the extent of our outstanding debt under our senior secured credit facility, the impact of increases in interest rates. We cannot assure that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flow or that we will be able to borrow funds under our senior secured credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt, or meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. We must satisfy borrowing base restrictions in order to borrow additional amounts under our February 2012 Credit Facility (see Note 6). If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds to service our debt, due to borrowing base restrictions or otherwise, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not compete effectively, we may lose market share to competitors and suffer a decline in revenues. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to support lower pricing and margins and to devote greater resources to marketing their current and new products and services. We face competition in each of our three divisions as follows: •The primary competitors of our telecommunication services division include telecommunication carriers such as Verizon Communications, Inc., AT&T Corp., and CenturyLink, Syniverse Technologies, Inc., Neustar and TARGUSinfo (recently acquired by Neustar). •The primary competitors of payment services division are APRIVA, AT&T Corp., Cybera, Inc., Phoenix Managed Networks, LLC, and Verizon Business Solutions, an operating unit of Verizon Communications, Inc. in North America, and BT Group PLC and Avantra in the United Kingdom, France Telecom in France, Telecom Italia in Italy, Telefonica in Spain and Telstra in Australia. The primary competitors of our payment services division's gateway services are other payment gateway offerings from payment service providers, such as Authorize.Net from Cybersource (Visa). 28 Table of Contents •The primary competitors of our financial services division include AT&T Corp., BT Group PLC, Bloomberg, Reuters, The Thomson Corporation (Thomson Financial), and SAVVIS, Inc. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends largely on the ability and experience of a number of key employees, including Henry H. Graham, Jr., our Chief Executive Officer, and Michael Q. Keegan, our President and Chief Operating Officer. If we lose the services of any of our key employees, our business may be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; •fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the currencies of countries in which we have operations; •announcements of technological innovations; •pricing by us or our competitors; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our customers or competitors; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •generally adverse market conditions. Regulatory changes may increase our costs or impair our growth. Federal and state regulations can affect the costs of business for us and our competitors by changing the rate structure for access services purchased from local exchange carriers to originate and terminate calls, by restricting access to dedicated connections available from local exchange carriers, by changing the basis for computation of other charges, such as universal service charges, or by revising the basis for taxing the services we purchase or provide. The Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") is currently considering changes to the rate structure for services provided by local exchange carriers, including the rate structure for access services, and we currently cannot predict whether these rule changes will be adopted or the impact these rule changes may have on our charges for access and other services if they are adopted. Recent and pending decisions of the FCC may limit the availability and increase pricing of network elements used by our suppliers to provide telecommunications services to us. We cannot predict whether these rule changes will increase the cost of services we purchase from our suppliers. Further, the United States Congress and the FCC is considering modifying the way in which Federal Universal Service Fund charges are calculated, including considering whether to assess universal service charges on a flat-fee basis, such as a per-line, per-telephone number or per-account charge. We currently cannot predict whether Congress will mandate or the FCC will adopt changes in the calculation of Federal Universal Service Fund contributions or whether these changes, if adopted, would increase our Federal Universal Service Fund surcharges. If the FCC implements any legislation, adopts any proposal or takes any administrative action that increases our Federal Universal Service Fund surcharges, our network operating costs will increase. In addition, if the FCC implements any legislation, adopts any 29 Table of Contents proposal, or takes any administrative action that increases our telecommunications service supplier's Universal Service Fund obligations, these suppliers may seek to pass through cost-recovery charges to us. We in turn will pass those potential increased Federal Universal Service Fund surcharges on to our customers to the extent permitted under our contracts with them. An increase in the Federal Universal Service Fund surcharges that we are required to pay would result in an increase in our cost of network services, a cost which the Company may or may not be able to pass on to our customers. The business of our telecommunication services division customers is or may become subject to regulation that indirectly affects our business. Many of our telecommunication services division customers are subject to federal and state regulations applicable to the telecommunications industry. Changes in these regulations could cause our customers to alter or decrease the services they purchase from us. In addition, the payment processing industry in which our payment services division operates has implemented comprehensive standards to enhance payment card data security. These standards, which are known as the PCI Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), provide a framework for developing a payment card data security process, which includes the prevention, detection and reaction to security incidents. We have made investments in our network and systems to be PCI DSS compliant because PCI DSS applies to our payment customers and to certain of the products and services we provide. While we expect we will continue to invest to be compliant with PCI DSS standards, these standards may change and this could cause us to incur additional costs. The payment processing industry also may become subject to regulation as a result of recent data security breaches that have exposed consumer data to potential fraud. As a result of the implementation of PCI DSS, and to the extent regulation occurs, our customers could impose additional technical, contractual or other requirements as a condition to doing business with them. These requirements could cause us to incur additional costs, which could be significant, or to lose revenues to the extent we do not comply with PCI DSS or other requirements. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect future regulation or deregulation may have on our business. Our operating costs may be increased because our service providers and several services that we offer may be indirectly affected by federal and state regulations. In addition, future services we may provide could become subject to direct regulation. We face risks related to securities litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the past we have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit. We are generally obliged, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in lawsuits. Defending against existing and potential securities litigation may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Regardless of the outcome, securities litigation can result in significant legal expenses. A materially adverse resolution of a securities lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Due to uncertainties associated with the future performance of acquired businesses and assets, we may not realize the full fair value of associated intangible assets and goodwill. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we have to write-off a material portion of our intangible assets or goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consists of intangible assets including goodwill. Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 50% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We also expect to engage in additional 30 Table of Contents acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. Under current accounting standards, we are able to amortize certain intangible assets over the useful life of the asset, while goodwill is not amortized. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write-off could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The current national and world-wide economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results and stock price in a material manner. General world-wide economic conditions have resulted in slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wireless communications markets. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our services. Furthermore, during challenging economic times, our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our accounts receivable outstanding would be negatively impacted. And any future downturn may reduce our revenue or our percentage of revenue growth on a quarter-to-quarter basis. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, world-wide, or in the telecommunications industry or the wireless communications markets. If the economy or the markets in which we operate do not improve from their current condition or if they deteriorate, our customers or potential customers could continue to reduce or further delay their use of our services, which would adversely impact our revenues and ultimately our profitability. In addition, we may record additional charges related to the restructuring of our business and the impairment of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 