ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our prospects are subject to certain uncertainties and risks. Our future results could differ materially from current results, and our actual results could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, those set forth below, other one-time events, and important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This report contains certain forward-looking statements. 4 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may not have access to adequate capital to meet our existing debt obligations. As of March 25, 2009, we owed approximately $28 million on a note to a related party. The note, in the original amount of $46 million, is a three-year secured note due on April 18, 2011, and is extendible for a one year period. Should the proceeds from our residual interests in our securitized loan portfolios be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, such proceeds, in conjunction with proceeds from our other assets, might not be sufficient to pay off the note by its due date. Our business may not be profitable in the future. We had net losses of $35.4 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, net losses of approximately $31.8 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, a net profit of approximately $7.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and we incurred net losses of approximately $2.7 million and $3.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Origen Financial L.L.C., our predecessor company, which we acquired in October 2003, experienced net losses in each year of its existence while growing its loan origination platform and business, including net losses of approximately $23.9 million for the period from January 1, 2003 through October 7, 2003 and $29.2 million for fiscal year 2002. While we have dramatically reduced the operating costs of the business through the cessation of all loan origination and loan servicing activities, should current and future economic conditions have an adverse effect on the borrowers associated with our securitized loans, the cash flows from our residual interests in these loans could be severely impacted. Such cash flows are our primary source of capital to fund the costs of operations and to produce profits. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of certain members of our senior management team. In general, we have entered into employment agreements or consulting agreements with these individuals. There is no guarantee that these individuals will renew such agreements, which currently expire during 2009, prior to the completion of the execution of our Asset Disposition and Management Plan. The loss of services of one or more key individuals may harm our ability to maximize the value of our residual interests in our securitized loans. Some of our investments are illiquid and their value may decrease. Some of our assets are and will continue to be relatively illiquid. In addition, certain of the asset-backed securities that we hold may include interests that have not been registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition of those securities except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in accordance with, those laws. Our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, including current market conditions, is currently limited and may become even more constrained. No assurances can be given that the fair market value of any of our assets will not further decrease in the future. Certain securitization structures may cause us to recognize income for accounting and tax purposes without concurrently receiving the associated cash flow. Certain securitizations are structured to build overcollateralization over time with respect to the loans that are the subject of the securitization or to accelerate the payment on senior securities to enhance the credit ratings of such securities. Accordingly, these structures may cause us to recognize income without concurrently receiving the associated cash flow. We have used such securitization structures in the past. These securitization structures and the possible resulting mismatch between income recognition and receipt of cash flow may cause us to require capital to meet our REIT distribution requirements, which capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We may pay distributions that result in a return of capital to stockholders, which may cause stockholders to realize lower overall returns. We may pay quarterly distributions that result in a return of capital to our stockholders. Any such return of capital to our stockholders will reduce the amount of capital available to us, which may result in lower returns to our 5 Table of Contents stockholders. None of the distributions in 2008 and 2007 represented a return of capital. Return of capital amounted to 5.5% of distributions in 2006. We may not generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to stockholders. We intend to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our REIT net taxable income each year so as to avoid paying corporate income tax on our earnings and to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. Distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based primarily on the performance of our manufactured housing loans and our ability to use hedging strategies to insulate our exposure to changing interest rates. Some of these factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future distributions. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to pay or maintain distributions in the future. We also cannot assure stockholders that the level of distributions will increase over time and that our loans will perform as expected. We may engage in hedging transactions, which can limit gains and increase exposure to losses. Periodically, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements in an effort to manage interest rate risk. An interest rate swap is considered to be a hedging transaction designed to protect us from the effect of interest rate fluctuations on our floating rate debt and also to protect our portfolio of assets from interest rate and prepayment rate fluctuations. We may use hedging transactions, including interest rate swaps, in the future. The nature and timing of interest rate risk management strategies may impact their effectiveness. Poorly designed strategies may increase rather than mitigate risk. For example, if we enter into hedging instruments that have higher interest rates embedded in them as a result of the forward yield curve, and at the end of the term of these hedging instruments the spot market interest rates for the liabilities that we hedged are actually lower, then we will have locked in higher interest rates for our liabilities than would be available in the spot market at the time and this could result in a narrowing of our net interest rate margin or result in losses. In some situations, we may sell assets or hedging instruments at a loss in order to maintain adequate liquidity. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates and prepayment rates. If the prepayment rates for our manufactured housing loans are lower than expected, return of cash to our shareholders may take longer than expected,effectively lowering the internal rate of return.. Prepayments of our manufactured housing loans, whether due to refinancing, repayments, repossessions or foreclosures, lower than management’s estimates could slow the timing of future cash flows. Prepayments can result from a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including changes in interest rates and general economic conditions. The securitization trusts through which we hold residual interests in securitized loans may not realize the expected recovery rate on the resale of a manufactured house upon its repossession or foreclosure. Proposed state and federal regulations regarding bankruptcies could adversely impact recovery rates on the resale of our manufactured houses taken back through repossession or foreclosure. The Housing Affordability and Stability Plan proposed by the U.S. Treasury Department seeks to reduce substantially the number of housing foreclosures through loan modifications, primarily by extending existing so called “cram-down” provisions on debt to include mortgages on primary residences. This extension would allow a bankruptcy judge the option of forgiving some of the debt thereby the amount receivable in the event of a subsequent foreclosure. Continued falling prices for new and existing housing sales may also adversely impact recovery rates as repossessed and foreclosed properties compete for buyers with newly built houses and sales of existing houses in a falling market. Data security breaches may subject us to liability or tarnish our reputation. In the ordinary course of our business, we have acquired and maintain confidential customer information. While we take great care in protecting customer information, we may incur liability if it is accessed by third parties and our customers suffer negative consequences, such as identity theft. We have taken precautions to guarantee the safety of 6 Table of Contents all of our customers’ confidential information. We also periodically review all of our data security policies and procedures in an effort to avoid data breaches. However, there can be no guarantee that we will not be subject to future claims arising from data breaches. Our inability to finance the purchase of our securitized loans on or after the respective call dates for each securitization may result in the partial or total loss of our overcollateralization amount. When the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the loans in each of our securitizations, including 2004-A through 2007-B, reaches 20% of the aggregate beginning principal balance on the date the securitization was established, the Servicer has the right to redeem the outstanding notes by forwarding an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the loans to the Trustee. If the Servicer elects to redeem the notes, then Origen would receive its overcollateralization amount in full on the redemption date (less fees and expenses). However, if the Servicer elects not to redeem the notes, then the Trustee is obligated to auction the collateral to the highest bidder, so long as the bid is high enough to pay in full the outstanding notes plus any associated fees and expenses of the Trust. Origen is permitted to participate in the auction, but must have the ability to purchase the loans either through internally generated cash or through a financing. To the extent Origen does not have the requisite cash on hand or is unable to obtain financing to participate in the auction, the overcollateralization amount may be eliminated if the Trustee sold the collateral to a bidder whose bid was equal to the outstanding notes plus fees. Any winning bid higher than the outstanding notes, but less than the outstanding collateral balance would result in a partial loss of our overcollateralization amount. We no longer service the loans we have originated. In July 2008, we sold certain of the assets of our loan servicing platform, including the servicing rights to loans we originated and in which we continue to own residual interests. Accordingly, we no longer have any direct control over the results of the servicing of our loans. Should the successor servicer not perform in a manner consistent with our servicing standards our cash flows from our residual interests could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to the Manufactured Housing Industry Manufactured housing loan borrowers may be relatively high credit risks. Manufactured housing loans make up substantially our entire loan portfolio. Typical manufactured housing loan borrowers may be relatively higher credit risks due to various factors. Moreover, especially during periods of economic slowdown or recession, decreased real estate values may reduce the incentives that borrowers have to meet their payment obligations. Consequently, the manufactured housing loans we have originated, securitized and in which we have a residual or retained ownership interest bear a higher rate of interest, have a higher probability of default and may involve higher delinquency rates and greater servicing costs relative to loans to more creditworthy borrowers. We bear the risk of delinquency and default on securitized loans in which we have a residual or retained ownership interest. We also reacquire the risks of delinquency and default for loans that we are obligated to repurchase. Repurchase obligations are typically triggered in sales or securitizations if the loan materially violates our representations or warranties. Depreciation in the value of manufactured houses may decrease sales of new manufactured houses and lead to increased defaults and delinquencies. The value of manufactured houses has tended to depreciate over time. This depreciation makes pre-owned houses, even relatively new ones, significantly less expensive than new manufactured houses, thereby decreasing the demand for new manufactured houses, which negatively affects the manufactured housing lending industry. Additionally, rapid depreciation may cause the fair market value of borrowers’ manufactured houses to be less than the outstanding balance of their loans. In cases where borrowers have negative equity in their houses, they may not be able to resell their manufactured houses for enough money to repay their loans and may have less incentive to continue to repay their loans, which may lead to increased delinquencies and defaults. 7 Table of Contents Our business may be significantly harmed by a slowdown in the economy of California where we have conducted a significant amount of business. In the past, we had no geographic concentration limits on our ability to originate or purchase loans. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 53% by principal balance and 38% by number of loans of the loans we originated were in California. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 41% of our loans receivable by principal balance was in California. Further decline in the economy or the residential real estate market in California or in any other state in which we have a high concentration of loans could further decrease the value of manufactured houses and increase the risk of delinquency. This, in turn, would increase the risk of default, repossession or foreclosure on manufactured housing loans that have been securitized and in which we hold a residual or retained ownership interest. Tax Risks of Our Business and Structure Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility in executing our business plan, and we cannot assure stockholders that we will have sufficient funds to meet our distribution obligations. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable net income each year. REIT taxable net income is determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. We are also required to pay federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income (including net capital gains) each year. In addition, to the extent such income is not subject to corporate tax, we are required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year and any amount of our income that was not distributed in prior years. We intend to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable net income each year in order to comply with the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid federal income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses in arriving at REIT taxable net income and the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis, access the capital markets or liquidate investments to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the federal income tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT even if our management believes that it is not in our best interest to do so. We cannot assure our stockholders that any such borrowing or capital market financing will be available to us or, if available to us, will be on terms that are favorable to us. Borrowings incurred to pay distributions will reduce the amount of cash available for operations. Any inability to borrow such funds or access the capital markets, if necessary, could jeopardize our REIT status and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may suffer adverse tax consequences and be unable to attract capital if we fail to qualify as a REIT. Since our taxable period ended December 31, 2003, we have been organized and operated, and intend to continue to operate, so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. Although we believe that we have been and will continue to be organized and have operated and will continue to operate so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we cannot assure stockholders that we have been or will continue to be organized or operated in a manner to so qualify or remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, frequent changes may occur in the area of REIT taxation, which require us to continually monitor our tax status. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable net income at regular corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, (generally requiring reasonable cause for any REIT testing violations), we also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. This treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability to us for the years involved. In addition, distributions to 8 Table of Contents stockholders would no longer be required to be made. Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our property and certain of our operations. A portion of our income from assets held directly by or through a qualified REIT subsidiary that is classified as a taxable mortgage pool may represent “phantom” taxable income. A portion of our income from a qualified REIT subsidiary that would otherwise be classified as a taxable mortgage pool or from interests in securitizations using a real estate mortgage investment conduits, or REMIC structure may be treated as “excess inclusion income,” Generally, a stockholder’s share of excess inclusion income would not be allowed to be offset by any operating losses otherwise available to the stockholder. Tax exempt entities that own shares in a REIT must treat their allocable share of excess inclusion income as unrelated business taxable income. A REIT must also pay federal tax, at the highest corporate marginal tax rate, on any excess inclusion income allocated to disqualified organizations (e.g., governmental agencies and tax exempt organizations not subject to the tax on unrelated business income). Any portion of a REIT dividend paid to foreign stockholders that is allocable to excess inclusion income will not be eligible for exemption from the 30% withholding tax (or reduced treaty rate) on dividend income. We may pay distributions that are in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, which may cause our stockholders to incur future adverse federal income tax consequences. We may pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders in excess of 100% of our estimated REIT taxable net income. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits are not treated as a dividend and generally will not be taxable to a taxable U.S. stockholder under current U.S. federal income tax law to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in his or her common stock. Instead, any such distribution generally will constitute a return of capital, which will reduce the stockholder’s adjusted basis and could result in the recognition of increased gain or decreased loss to the stockholder upon a sale of the stockholder’s stock. The market price of our common stock has significantly declined and may continue to do so. We have been affected by the current volatility in the stock market. In December 2008, we voluntarily delisted our stock from the NASDAQ Global Market, although our common stock is currently traded on the over-the-counter market. In December 2008 we also voluntarily deregistered our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, we will cease filing reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission effective following the filing of the 2008 Form 10-K. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for future sales, or the market price of our common stock. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors are limited, which could limit stockholders’ recourse in the event of certain actions. Our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of our directors for money damages for breach of a fiduciary duty as a director, except under limited circumstances. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors than might otherwise exist. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each director or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Our board of directors may change our investment and operational policies and practices without a vote of our stockholders, which limits stockholder control of our policies and practices. Our major policies, including our policies and practices with respect to our operations, investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualifications and distributions, are determined by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our stockholders. Accordingly, our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our governing documents may make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us. 7.50% Ownership Limit. In order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. Thus, ownership of more than 7.50% of our outstanding shares of common stock by any single stockholder has been 9 Table of Contents restricted, with certain exceptions, for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. The 7.50% ownership limit, as well as our ability to issue additional shares of common stock or shares of other stock (which may have rights and preferences over the common stock), may discourage a change of control of the Company and may also: (1) deter tender offers for the common stock, which offers may be advantageous to stockholders; and (2) limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock that might otherwise exist if an investor were attempting to assemble a block of common stock in excess of 7.50% of the outstanding shares of the Company or otherwise effect a change of control of the Company. Preferred Stock. Our charter authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to convert into shares of common stock) of any shares issued. The power to issue preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company even if a change in control were in the stockholders’ interest. Section 203. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law is applicable to certain types of corporate takeovers. Subject to specified exceptions listed in this statute, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that a corporation may not engage in any “business combination” with any “interested stockholder” for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Although these provisions do not apply in certain circumstances, the provisions of this section could discourage offers from third parties to acquire us and increase the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 