ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may reduce our cash flow and impede our ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our indebtedness, operate our business and pay dividends on our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $390.6 million, which represented approximately 98% of our total consolidated capitalization on a book basis. As of December 31, 2009, we also had availability of $49.2 million (net of standby letters of credit of approximately $10.8 million) under our revolving credit facility. Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. has a $10 million commitment under the revolving credit facility. Because Lehman is in bankruptcy, we do not expect Lehman to perform under the terms of the credit facility, thereby reducing the effective availability under the credit facility to $39.2 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt; •make us more vulnerable to, and reduce our flexibility in planning for, changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; •limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy, or other purposes; and •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt. Any of the above listed factors could make us more vulnerable to defaults and place us at a competitive disadvantage, therefore making an investment in our common stock less attractive when compared to other investments. Further, if we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 14 Table of Contents We could incur more indebtedness, which may increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends on our common stock. The indenture governing our senior discount notes and our credit facilities permit us, under certain circumstances, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. For example, our credit facilities allow us to incur up to an additional $80.0 million of incremental term loans under the credit facility, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness through our revolving credit facility. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The terms of our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of financial and other restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. For a more complete description of these covenants and restrictions, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Item 7. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our existing and future debt agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our credit facilities could result in a default under such facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders may elect to declare all obligations under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings, any of which would result in an event of default under our senior discount notes. If the debt under our credit facilities or our senior discount notes were to be accelerated, our business operations would be interrupted, which would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Interest under our senior discount notes requires the payment of interest in cash semi-annually. The annual cash obligation for this interest is $15.8 million. The payment of this interest could limit our ability to fund acquisitions, make capital expenditures or pay dividends. The principal source of cash to pay interest on our senior discount notes is cash flow generated by our wholly-owned subsidiary Reddy Ice Corporation ("Reddy Corp.") Our credit facilities prohibit Reddy Corp. from distributing funds to Reddy Holdings to pay cash interest on our senior discount notes if Reddy Corp.'s leverage ratio exceeds 3.75:1.00. As of December 31, 2009, Reddy Corp.'s leverage ratio was 3.62:1.00. If Reddy Corp. is prohibited from distributing funds to Reddy Holdings, we may default in our interest payment obligations on our senior discount notes. Our revolving credit facility matures in August 2010, our term loan in August 2012 and our senior discount notes in October 2012. Depending on our financial performance and the state of the credit markets when these obligations become due, we may not be able to refinance these obligations on terms that are as favorable to us as the current arrangements. In particular, events similar to recent dislocations in the credit markets, which significantly impacted the availability and pricing of financing, particularly in the high yield debt and leveraged credit markets, may significantly constrain our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness or to obtain waivers of any future defaults under our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes. Any such developments in the credit markets may have a significant effect on our cost of financing and our liquidity position. 15 Table of Contents Litigation and investigations pending against us could materially impact our business and results of operations. We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, claims, disputes, litigation and investigations. In particular, the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") is currently conducting a criminal investigation into possible antitrust violations in the packaged ice industry and we and certain of our employees have received federal grand jury subpoenas. In addition, various state attorneys general and the Civil Fraud Division of the DOJ are conducting related civil investigations into possible antitrust violations in the packaged ice industry and the Securities and Exchange Commission has initiated an informal inquiry into the matters that are the subject of the DOJ and state investigations. Numerous putative class actions have also been filed against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and other packaged ice producers alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws and related claims, violations of securities laws and derivative claims against our directors and officers. A special committee of our Board of Directors has conducted an internal investigation of these matters. One of our executives has been placed on a paid leave of absence by the special committee, which found he had violated our policies and was associated with matters that are under investigation. Investigating these matters and responding to the government investigations and related civil litigation involve substantial expense to us, which has had and could continue to have a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations, and may distract and disrupt our business. In addition, our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted by unfavorable outcomes in any of these or other pending or future litigation or investigations. We may be required to pay substantial amounts as damages and costs in the civil litigation as a result of an unfavorable determination by a court or jury. We could also pay substantial amounts in settlement of some or all of the civil claims. Additionally, it is possible the DOJ will decide to bring criminal charges against us and/or certain current or former employees, officers or directors for violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Such charges could result in a substantial fine for the Company and fines and/or imprisonment for the individuals. Our ability to complete potential acquisitions may also be negatively impacted by antitrust investigations and litigation in the packaged ice industry. Our ability to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements may also be adversely affected by the costs of such investigations and litigation as well as any unfavorable outcomes in these or other pending or future litigation or investigations. In addition, our ability to do business with the government may be negatively impacted by an unfavorable outcome of the DOJ investigation. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation or investigation and the outcome of any such litigation, investigations and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties. There also exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimatable. The seasonal nature of the ice business results in losses and lower margins in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We experience significant seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and profitability. We make a disproportionate amount of our sales in the second and third calendar quarters when the weather is generally warmer, which results in an increased demand for ice. We also earn any net income during these same periods. As a result of seasonal revenue declines and the lack of a corresponding decrease in certain expenses, we experience net losses and materially lower profit margins during the first and fourth calendar quarters. Variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of our cash flows and therefore limit our ability to timely service our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, our ability to pay dividends and our ability to incur capital expenditures. In addition, because our operating results depend significantly on sales during the second and third calendar 16 Table of Contents quarters, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly if the weather during these periods is cool or rainy. Our revenues and sales volumes may be negatively impacted by macroeconomic factors outside of our control. We believe end users of our products use packaged ice in many applications, including recreational activities, the construction industry, agriculture and special events. In the past two years multiple segments of the United States economy, including housing and construction and the credit markets, have deteriorated. Our revenues, sales volumes and profits have declined as a result of this deterioration and our revenues, sales volumes and profits may continue to decline as activity by commercial end users of our products declines. Furthermore, weakness in the national economy combined with other factors including inflation, interest rate fluctuations, increases in fuel and other energy costs and healthcare costs and the availability of financing, including mortgages and consumer credit, may negatively impact consumer confidence and result in changes to consumer spending patterns. If consumer or commercial activities associated with the use of our products decline, our revenues, sales volumes, profits and cash flows may decline. Weather conditions and weather events can decrease our sales or increase our expenses. Cool or rainy weather can decrease sales, while extremely hot weather may increase our expenses, each resulting in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. Ice consumers demand ice for a variety of reasons, but many of them buy ice in connection with outdoor related activities, both commercial and recreational. As a result, demand for ice increases during periods of warm, sunny weather, and conversely, demand decreases during periods of cool, rainy weather. During extended periods of cool or rainy weather on a national or regional basis, our revenues and resulting net income may substantially decline. Also, hot weather does not necessarily result in greater net income. During extended periods of hot weather, our profits and cash flow may decline because of an increase in expenses in response to excess demand. We may have to transport ice from one plant to another and, in some cases, purchase ice from third party sources and transport it to a specific market to meet this excess demand, resulting in higher expenses and inconsistent service and product quality. Finally, although extreme weather events such as hurricanes can cause an increase in volume sales, those sales are not necessarily profitable due to added costs and disruptions to our normal service and distribution routes. Implementation of our business strategy will require substantial capital investments; failure to obtain sufficient capital resources could limit our prospects, adversely affecting our results of operations and cause us to lose market share. We have developed a strategic vision to become our customers' "Total Ice Solution." Implementation of this strategic vision will require substantial capital resources to make investments in our infrastructure, manufacture and install additional ISB systems and invest in the ice machine leasing business. We may be unable to obtain access to sufficient capital to implement any or all of these initiatives. If we fail to successfully implement our strategic plan, our business will not grow as we intend, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we may be unable to repay our debt. Our failure to successfully compete in our markets, retain existing customers and obtain new customers could limit our prospects and cause us to lose market share. Our business is highly competitive. We have many competitors in each of our geographic markets offering similar products and services. We also face competitors offering alternative technological solutions to ice production and delivery throughout our markets, including ice vending. Competition in our business is based primarily on service, quality and price. We could lose market share if we fail to successfully compete against our competitors in any of these areas, if our existing competitors expand their capacity, if new entrants successfully penetrate our markets, if we fail to adequately serve our existing base of customers, or if our larger mass merchant, grocery or convenience store customers decide to manufacture their own ice rather than purchase our products. 17 Table of Contents Increases in the prices of electricity, certain raw materials, fuel, insurance and other required expenses could, if we cannot pass those price increases along to our customers, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We use substantial amounts of polyethylene, which is the primary raw material used to manufacture the bags we use to package our ice, electricity in connection with our manufacturing process and fuel to operate the refrigerated trucks for ice delivery. We also carry general liability, workers' compensation, health and vehicle insurance. We have experienced increases in bag, fuel, electricity and insurance costs in the past and may experience increases in such costs in the future. If the prices for these items or other expenses increase beyond the amounts that we are able to pass along to our customers, our margins and our operating cash flow would decrease. Our acquisitions may not be successfully integrated and could cause unexpected financial or operational difficulties; failure to make acquisitions may limit our growth. From the fourth quarter of 2003 to 2009, we completed a total of 53 acquisitions. We expect to continue to acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions are also accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. Further, acquisitions are subject to risks associated with the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, any of which could increase the costs of operating our business, negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions or result in the loss of customers. We are continuing to evaluate acquisition opportunities as part of our ongoing acquisition strategy. These opportunities will be evaluated in light of the availability of capital resources, which may be constrained. A substantial portion of the historical growth in our business has been as a result of acquisitions. If the size and number of our future acquisitions decreases from our historical trend, our business may not grow as rapidly, or at all, as compared to historical periods. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of contamination. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations, or incidents resulting in environmental releases, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and penalties, third party claims for personal injury, investments to retrofit or upgrade our facilities and programs, or curtailment of our operations. For example, our ice manufacturing and distribution operations use refrigerants such as ammonia and Freon. Some of our facilities may not be in compliance with certain Freon refrigerant requirements, such as leak detection and repair, recordkeeping or reporting. In addition, the market price of Freon is rising as a result of phase-outs under federal laws, which could significantly increase our operating costs in the future if we are not able to obtain approved substitutes. From time to time, our use of ammonia has resulted in releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in lawsuits or administrative penalties. Material violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, including violations and liabilities incurred by entities which we have acquired, may require us to incur substantial costs which could reduce our margins, or divert resources from ongoing environmental programs and improvements, which could delay our efforts to integrate acquisitions and upgrade our operations, or expose us to risk of further environmental liability. 18 Table of Contents Our business could be disrupted or we could incur substantial costs because of government laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws relating to many aspects of our business, including labeling, sanitation, health and safety and manufacturing processes. We cannot predict the types of government regulations that may be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be interpreted or enforced. The enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or a stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations may cause a disruption in our operations or require additional expenditures by us, some of which could be material. We may incur material costs and liabilities in order to comply with any such laws and regulations and such costs and liabilities may result in substantial expenses to us and could divert management's time and attention. If we are unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees, our business might be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is high. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service and performance of our management team and, in particular, our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, and Chief Customer Officer. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct our operations successfully. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting suitable candidates for other positions that are or may need to be filled. In particular, uncertainty related to the ongoing antitrust investigations and related civil litigation may make attracting qualified personnel more difficult and may make it more difficult to retain our existing management team. Our inability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel or the loss of any member of our management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, we do not carry "key man" life insurance which would mitigate the impact of any such impairment. Accidents involving our products and equipment could expose us to increased costs as a result of product liability claims. We are subject to a risk of product liability claims and adverse publicity if a consumer is or claims to be harmed while using our products or equipment. Any such claim may result in negative publicity, loss of revenues or higher costs associated with litigation. We currently carry product liability insurance. However, this insurance may be insufficient to pay for all or a large part of these losses. If our insurance does not adequately cover these losses, our results of operations and cash flow would decrease and such a decrease could be material. We may lose customers' business to competitors as a result of our limited intellectual property protection, including on The Ice Factory. As the sole major ice supplier using an on-site production and delivery system at our customers' retail locations, we have enjoyed a competitive advantage over our competitors. Our proprietary ISB system is preferred by certain of our high volume customers to traditional ice delivery and gives us more flexibility during peak seasons. However, our intellectual property rights are limited in scope and value, and certain of our patents are set to expire at various dates from 2010 through 2026. Competitors sometimes test machines similar to our ISB system. Other competitors in the ice vending segment are testing and deploying self-contained units to produce ice at the point of sale. Certain of these competitors have had limited success in our markets. If any of our competitors are successful with a significant rollout of any such system, we could lose business to these companies, which would result in decreased cash flows and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents It is our practice to protect certain of our proprietary materials and processes by relying on trade secret laws and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements. Confidentiality or trade secrets may not be maintained and others may independently develop or obtain access to such materials or processes, which could adversely affect our competitive position and ability to differentiate our products and services from our competitors' offerings. Limitations on our ability to utilize our tax assets before they expire may negatively affect financial results and the ability to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $69 million, of which approximately $19 million were generated prior to August 15, 2003. There are annual limitations on the utilization of the $19 million portion of the net operating loss carryforwards due to changes in ownership on and prior to August 15, 2003. Further, since at the closing of our initial public offering on August 12, 2005 our prior equity investors ceased to own a majority of our common stock, new limitations apply to the approximately $33 million of net operating loss carry-forwards that were generated from August 15, 2003 to August 12, 2005 and additional limitations apply to the net operating loss carry-forwards generated prior to August 15, 2003. If we are not able to utilize our tax assets in the manner or in the timeframe we anticipate, our future after-tax cash flow will be reduced. We do not have written customer agreements with most of our customers, which could lead to unexpected customer loss and adversely affect our business. As is customary in our industry, we do not generally have written agreements with our customers. As a result, our customers can terminate their relationship with us at any time without notice or penalty. In addition, even if our customers should decide to continue their relationship with us, there can be no guarantee that our customers will purchase the same amount of our products as in the past, or that purchases will be on similar terms. Any loss of a significant customer, change in the terms of the relationship with a significant customer or a material decrease in the amount of products purchased by a significant customer could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The expansion of our ISB and ice machine leasing businesses may not provide expected returns, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our strategic vision calls for, among other things, expansion of our ISB and ice machine leasing businesses. Proper site selection is critical to achieving the required financial return on an ISB system to support the upfront capital expenditures required to build and place each ISB system. If we fail to properly select sites for additional ISB systems, if the costs of operating and maintaining those systems exceed our expectations or if we fail to obtain sufficient pricing from our customers to support those systems we would not achieve our expected returns on our investments in additional ISB systems and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have limited experience in the ice machine leasing business. Expansion of that business will require capital investments and may involve unforseen risks. Failure to achieve our anticipated results in the ice machine leasing business could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. The continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") require us to maintain, among other things, a market capitalization or stockholders equity above a specified 20 Table of Contents threshold. As a result of the decline in our stock price and the reduction in our stockholders' equity resulting from the impairment of our goodwill as of September 30, 2008, we were notified by the NYSE in November 2008 that we are not in compliance with their continued listing standards. On February 13, 2009, the NYSE accepted our plan to achieve compliance with the continuing listing standards within 18 months. The NYSE monitors our performance under the plan on a quarterly basis. Although we are currently in compliance with the minimum market capitalization requirement, the NYSE continues to monitor our performance. To the extent we cannot meet the applicable standards during the required period, or if the NYSE determines we are not satisfying our obligations under the plan to achieve compliance, our stock could become delisted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our listing with the NYSE, or list on an alternate stock exchange in the event our common stock is delisted by the NYSE. A delisting of our common stock could materially and adversely affect, among other things, the liquidity and market price of our common stock; the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock; and our access to capital markets to raise capital in the future. The market for our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decrease. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell our common stock held by you at or above the price you paid for it. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, such as period-to-period fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results, developments in litigation and investigations impacting us, sales of our common stock by our existing equity investors, developments in our industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts, failure to meet financial estimates by analysts, competitive factors, general economic and securities market conditions and other external factors. Also, securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic or market conditions, and market conditions affecting the stock of companies in our industry in particular, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. Limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to its price volatility. For the year ended 2009, the average daily trading volume for our common stock as reported by the NYSE was approximately 267,624 shares and the median daily trading volume was approximately 167,800 shares. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Additionally, no equity analysts currently cover our common stock, which could negatively affect market demand for our stock. If our share price is volatile, we may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company's securities, security holders have instituted class action litigation. We are currently the subject of purported securities class actions and stockholder derivative actions. This type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, can result in substantial legal costs and the diversion of our management's attention from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. We are a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiary, we will be unable to meet our debt service and other obligations. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiary. We do not have, apart from our ownership of our subsidiary, any independent operations. As a result, we will rely 21 Table of Contents on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiary to meet our debt service and other obligations. The ability of our subsidiary to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on our operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the covenants that are contained in our credit facilities and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiary incur. In addition, because we are a holding company, claims by our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our subsidiary, including obligations under our credit facilities. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiary will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our subsidiary's liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. Provisions of our charter documents and the DGCL may inhibit a takeover, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents and the corporation laws of the state in which we are incorporated could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors could therefore authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could dilute the voting power or diminish other rights of holders of our common stock. Additional provisions are included in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions, including: •the sole power of a majority of the Board of Directors to fix the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors; •requirements for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals; and •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent and restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("DGCL") prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our common stock. On September 15, 2008, our Board of Directors amended our prior dividend policy and suspended our quarterly cash dividends indefinitely. No dividends have been declared for any period after July 1, 2008. The payment of dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. Changes in our dividend policy may cause 22 Table of Contents the market price of our common stock to decline and could further cause your shares of common stock to become less liquid, which may result in losses by you. Even if our Board of Directors desires to declare and pay dividends, we might not have cash in the future to pay dividends in the intended amounts or at all or we may be contractually or legally prohibited from paying dividends. Our ability to pay dividends, and our Board of Directors' determination to declare any future dividends, will depend on numerous factors, including the following: •the state of our business, competition and changes in our industry; •changes in the factors, assumptions and other considerations made by our Board of Directors in reviewing and revising whether to declare any future dividends; •our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources; •our various expected cash needs, including cash interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, the purchase price of acquisitions, incremental costs associated with being a public company and taxes; •our ability to maintain compliance with covenants in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness; •costs and expenses related to litigation, investigations and claims, including the ongoing antitrust investigations and related litigation; and •potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. Our actual cash available to pay dividends may not equal or exceed the amount necessary to pay dividends at any time. Over time, our capital and other cash needs will invariably be subject to uncertainties, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the level of any dividends we may pay in the future. In addition, to the extent that we would seek to raise additional cash from additional debt incurrence or equity security issuances, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on reasonable terms or at all. Each of the factors listed above could negatively affect our ability to pay any future dividends. In addition, our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior discount notes restrict our ability to pay dividends. We refer you to "Long Term Debt and Other Obligations" under Item 7, where we describe the terms of our indebtedness, including provisions limiting our ability to declare and pay dividends. Also, under the DGCL, our Board of Directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. These restrictions may limit the dividends we are permitted to pay, or prohibit the payment of dividends entirely. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 