Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company The slow-down of economic growth in China and the global economic downturn have adversely affected our business, and may materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our business and operations are primarily based in China and almost all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the economy and travel industry in China. Although the economy in China has grown significantly in the past decades, any slow-down of economic growth in China could reduce expenditures for travel, which in turn may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions recently, and most of the world’s major economies have entered into recession. China’s economy has slowed down significantly since the second half of 2008 and this trend may continue into the rest of 2009 and beyond. Since we derive most of our revenues from hotel reservation, air-ticketing and packaged-tour services in China, the recent economic slow-down in China has negatively affected our operating results since the second half of 2008. Any persistent slow-down in China’s economy may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, the weakness in the economy could erode consumer confidence which, in turn, could result in changes to consumer spending patterns relating to travel products and services. If consumer demand for travel products and services we offer decreases, our revenues may decline. Furthermore, the current financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis and slow-down of the Chinese economy may affect our business and their impact on our business in the short term and long term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by the continuing global economic downturn and slow-down of the Chinese economy. 5 Table of Contents General declines or disruptions in the travel industry may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is significantly affected by the trends that occur in the travel industry in China, including the hotel, air-ticketing and packaged-tour sectors. As the travel industry is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. The recent worldwide recession has led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for travel services. Other trends or events that tend to reduce travel and are likely to reduce our revenues include: • an outbreak of H1N1 flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or any other serious contagious diseases; • increased prices in the hotel, air-ticketing, or other travel-related sectors; • increased occurrence of travel-related accidents; • natural disasters or poor weather conditions; and • terrorist attacks or threats of terrorist attacks or wars. We could be severely and adversely affected by declines or disruptions in the travel industry and in many cases, have little or no control over the occurrence of such events. Such events could result in a decrease in demand for our travel services. This decrease in demand, depending on the scope and duration, could significantly and adversely affect our business and financial performance over the short and long term. The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In 2008, the trading prices of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market ranged from US$16.41 to US$70.89 per ADS, and the closing price on May 22, 2009 was US$37.04 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions in the Internet, online commerce or travel industries; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other Internet, online commerce or travel companies; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies that focus on the China market; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • potential litigation; and • market and volume fluctuations in the stock market in general. In particular, in 2008, the trading prices of shares and ADSs listed on major U.S. stock exchanges experienced wide fluctuations, due in part to worldwide financial and economic turmoil. The trading price of our ADSs was also subject to wide fluctuation during the period. In addition, market prices for Internet-related companies and companies with operations in China in particular have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted share-based awards. 6 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain existing relationships with travel suppliers and strategic alliances, or establish new arrangements with travel suppliers and strategic alliances similar to those we currently have, our business may suffer. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our existing hotel suppliers, if our hotel suppliers establish similar or more favorable relationships with our competitors or if our hotel suppliers increase their competition with us through their direct sales, our operating results and our business would be harmed, because we would not have the necessary supply of hotel rooms or hotel rooms at satisfactory rates to meet the needs of our customers, or because of reduced demand for our services. Our business depends significantly upon our ability to contract with hotels in advance for the guaranteed availability of certain hotel rooms. We rely on hotel suppliers to provide us with rooms at discounted prices. However, our contracts with our hotel suppliers are not exclusive and most of the contracts must be renewed semi-annually or annually. We cannot assure you that our hotel suppliers will renew our contracts in the future on terms similar to those we currently have. Furthermore, in order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to establish new arrangements with hotels in our existing markets and in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify appropriate hotels or enter into arrangements with those hotels on favorable terms, if at all. This failure could harm the growth of our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We derive revenues and other significant benefits from our arrangements with major domestic airlines in China and international airlines operating flights originating from China. Our airline ticket suppliers allow us to book and sell tickets on their behalf and collect commissions on tickets booked and sold through us. Although we currently have supply relationships with these airlines, they also compete with us for ticket bookings and additionally have entered into similar arrangements with many of our competitors and may continue to do so in the future. Such arrangements may be on better terms than we have. We cannot assure you that any of these airlines will continue to have supplier relationships with us. The loss of these supplier relationships would impair our operating results and financial condition as we would lose an increasingly significant source of our revenues. Part of the revenues that we derive from our hotel suppliers, airline ticket suppliers and other travel service providers are obtained through our strategic alliances with various third parties. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to successfully establish and maintain strategic alliances with third parties which are effective and beneficial for our business. Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, revenue growth and profitability. If we fail to further increase our brand recognition, we may face difficulty in obtaining new business partners and customers, and our business may be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the Ctrip brand is a critical aspect of our efforts to grow our customer base and obtain new business partners. Some of our potential competitors already have well-established brands in the travel industry. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on our ability to maintain a sizeable and active customer base, provide high-quality customer service and organize effective marketing and advertising programs. If our customer base significantly declines, or the quality of our customer services substantially deteriorates, we may not be able to cost-effectively maintain and promote our brand, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. We compete primarily with other consolidators of hotel accommodations and flight reservation services based in China, such as eLong, Inc. and Mangocity.com. We also compete with traditional travel agencies. In the future, we may also face competition from new players in the hotel consolidation market in China and abroad that may enter China. We may face more competition from hotels and airlines as they enter the discount rate market directly or through alliances with other travel consolidators. In addition, international travelers have become an increasingly important customer base. Competitors that have strategic alliances with consolidators abroad may have more effective channels to direct on-line booking requests to their websites for travel needs in China. Furthermore, like all other consolidators, we do not have exclusive arrangements with our travel suppliers. The combination of these two factors means that potential entrants to our industry face relatively low entry barriers. Increased competition could reduce our operating margins and profitability and result in loss of market share. Some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages, such as significantly greater financial, marketing and strategic relationships and alliances or other resources or name recognition, and may be able to imitate and adopt our business model. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors. In the event we are not able to compete successfully, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate because of seasonality in the travel industry in China. Our business experiences fluctuations, reflecting seasonal variations in demand for travel services. For example, the first quarter of each year generally contributes the lowest portion of our annual net revenues, primarily due to a slowdown in business activity around and during the Chinese New Year holiday, which occurs during the period. Consequently, our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. 7 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed if our infrastructure and technology are damaged or otherwise fail or become obsolete. Our first customer service center and substantially all of our computer and communications systems are located at a single facility in Shanghai. Our second customer service center is currently under construction in Nantong, China. Therefore, our computer and communication systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, computer viruses, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, vandalism, natural disasters and other similar events. We do not carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. We use an internally developed booking software system that supports nearly all aspects of our booking transactions. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to upgrade our systems and infrastructure quickly enough to accommodate future traffic levels, avoid obsolescence or successfully integrate any newly developed or purchased technology with our existing system. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, poor customer service, impaired quality and speed of reservations and confirmations and delays in reporting accurate financial and operating information. These factors could cause us to lose customers and suppliers, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our key executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our key executives. We rely on their expertise in business operations, finance and travel services and on their relationships with our suppliers, shareholders, and business partners. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them. In that case, our business may be severely disrupted, we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any of these key executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers and suppliers. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you of the extent to which any of these agreements would be enforced in China, where most of these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China— Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” If we are unable to attract, train and retain key individuals and highly skilled employees, our business may be adversely affected. If our business continues to expand, we will need to hire additional employees, including travel supplier management personnel to maintain and expand our travel supplier network, information technology and engineering personnel to maintain and expand our websites, customer service center and systems, and customer service representatives to serve an increasing number of customers. If we are unable to identify, attract, hire, train and retain sufficient employees in these areas, users of our websites and customer service center may have negative experiences and turn to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and value-added telecommunications businesses, and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations. We are a Cayman Islands company and a foreign person under PRC law. Due to foreign ownership restrictions in the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and value-added telecommunications industries, we conduct parts of our business through contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities. These entities hold the licenses and approvals that are essential for our business operations. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, our current ownership structure, the ownership structure of our subsidiaries and our affiliated Chinese entities, the contractual arrangements among us, our subsidiaries, our affiliated Chinese entities and their shareholders and our business operations, as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. If we and our affiliated Chinese entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant governmental authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation, levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our affiliated Chinese entities, revoking our business licenses or the business licenses of our affiliated Chinese entities, requiring us and our affiliated Chinese entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations and requiring us or our affiliated Chinese entities to discontinue any portion or all of our value-added telecommunications, air-ticketing, travel agency or advertising businesses. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations, and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Under the equity pledge agreements between our subsidiaries and the shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities, the shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities pledged their respective equity interests in these entities to our subsidiaries. Such pledges were duly created by recording the pledge in the relevant affiliated Chinese entities’ register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Collateral Law. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, effective as of October 1, 2007 and the Measures for the Registration of Equity Pledge with the Administration for Industry and Commerce, effective as of October 1, 2008, the effectiveness of the pledges will be denied if the pledges are not registered with the relevant administration for industry and commerce. Our affiliated Chinese entities and our subsidiaries are in the process of preparing the application forms and relevant documents for registration pursuant to the Measures for the Registration of Equity Pledge. Before such registration procedures are completed, we cannot assure you that the effectiveness of the pledges will be recognized by PRC courts if disputes arise on certain pledged equity interests or that our subsidiaries’ interests as pledgees will prevail over those of third parties. If our affiliated Chinese entities violate our contractual arrangements with them, our business could be disrupted, our reputation may be harmed and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights, which may be time-consuming and expensive. As the PRC government restricts foreign ownership of value-added telecommunications, air-ticketing, travel agency and advertising businesses in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, in which we have no ownership interest, to conduct part of our non-hotel reservation business activities through a series of contractual arrangements, which are intended to provide us with effective control over these entities and allow us to obtain economic benefits from them. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that these contractual arrangements are valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws, these arrangements are not as effective in providing control as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our affiliated Chinese entities could violate our contractual arrangements with them by, among other things, failing to operate our air-ticketing, packaged-tour or advertising business in an acceptable manner or pay us for our consulting or other services. In any such event, we would have to rely on the PRC legal system for the enforcement of those agreements, which could have uncertain results. Any legal proceeding could result in the disruption of our business, damage to our reputation, diversion of our resources and incurrence of substantial costs. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” The principal shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Our director, Min Fan, our officers, Jianmin Zhu, Tao Yang and Gangyi Yan and a family member of a senior officer, Fengying Zhang were also the principal shareholders of our consolidated affiliated Chinese entities as of December 31, 2008. Thus, conflicts of interest between their duties to our company and our affiliated Chinese entities may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these persons will act entirely in our interests or that the conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these persons could violate their non-competition or employment agreements with us or their legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others, resulting in our loss of corporate opportunities. In any such event, we would have to rely on the PRC legal system for the enforcement of these agreements, which could have uncertain results. Any legal proceeding could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resources and incurrence of substantial costs. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities may result in adverse tax consequences to us. As a result of our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements between us and our affiliated Chinese entities, we are effectively subject to the 5% PRC business tax on both revenues generated by our affiliated Chinese entities’ operations in China and revenues derived from our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between us and our affiliated Chinese entities were not made on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that our affiliated Chinese entities adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our affiliated Chinese entities’ tax expenses without reducing our tax expenses, which could subject our affiliated Chinese entities to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes, and/or result in the loss of the tax benefits available to our subsidiaries in China. The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, effective on January 1, 2008, requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its affiliates to the relevant tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arms’ length principles. As a result, our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities may result in adverse tax consequences to us. 9 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities in China are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries in China and consulting and other fees paid to us by our affiliated Chinese entities. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds unless these reserves have reached 50% of the subsidiaries’ registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Dividend payments derived from income earned prior to January 1, 2008 to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, were exempt from PRC withholding tax under PRC tax law. Pursuant to the EIT Law and Circular Caishui (2008) No. 1 issued by Ministry of Finance of China on February 22, 2008, the dividends declared out of the profits earned after January 1, 2008 by an FIE to its immediate holding company outside China would be subject to a 10% withholding tax unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Our subsidiaries in China are considered FIEs and are directly held by our subsidiary in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between the mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in August 2006, dividends payable by an FIE in China to a company in Hong Kong which directly holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the FIE will be subject to a withholding tax of 5%. On February 20, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on Relevant Issues of Implementing Dividend Clauses under Tax Treaties, or the 2009 Notice. According to the 2009 Notice, no enterprise is entitled to enjoy preferential treatment on dividend withholding tax rates pursuant to any tax treaties if such enterprise qualifies for such preferential tax rates through any transaction or arrangement, the major purpose of which is to obtain such preferential tax treatment. The tax authority in charge has the right to make adjustments to the applicable tax rates, if it determines that any taxpayer has enjoyed preferential treatment under tax treaties as a result of such transaction or arrangement. Since the 2009 Notice is newly issued, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will implement it in practice and to what extent it will affect the dividend withholding tax rates for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China to our Hong Kong subsidiary. If the relevant tax authority determines that our Hong Kong subsidiary was set up for the purpose of taking advantage of the preferential tax rates on dividends, the higher 10% withholding tax rate may apply to such dividends. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, our global income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the EIT Law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. However, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret the PRC tax resident treatment of an offshore company, like us, having indirect ownership interests in PRC enterprises through intermediary holding vehicles. Moreover, under the EIT Law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by a Chinese entity and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. It remains unclear whether the dividends payable by a Chinese entity or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. The PRC government regulates the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and Internet industries. If we fail to obtain or maintain all pertinent permits and approvals or if the PRC government imposes more restrictions on these industries, our business may be adversely affected. The PRC government regulates the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and Internet industries. We are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities to conduct our business, including separate licenses for value-added telecommunications, air-ticketing, advertising and travel agency activities. If we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, we may be subject to various penalties, such as fines or suspension of operations in these regulated businesses, which could severely disrupt our business operations. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, the Civil Aviation Administration of China, or CAAC, regulates pricing of air tickets as well as commissions payable to air-ticketing agencies. If restrictive policies are adopted by CAAC or any of its regional branches, our air-ticketing revenues may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from using our intellectual property, which may harm our business and expose us to litigation. We regard our domain names, trade names, trademarks and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We try to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademark protection and confidentiality laws and contracts. Trademark and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective in the United States. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Any misappropriation could have a negative effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, we may need to go to court to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth. Our business has grown rapidly during the last several years. We have rapidly expanded our operations and anticipate further expansion of our operations and workforce. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated future operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to improve and develop our financial and managerial controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. Our strategy to acquire or invest in complementary businesses and assets and establish strategic alliances involves significant risk and uncertainty that may prevent us from achieving our objectives and harm our financial conditions and result of operations. As part of our plan to expand our product and service offerings, we have made and intend to make strategic acquisitions or investments in the highly-fragmented travel service industry in China. Our strategic acquisitions and investments could subject us to uncertainties and risks, including: • high acquisition and financing costs; • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • failure to achieve our intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; • cost of and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; and • potential claims or litigation regarding our board’s exercise of its duty of care and other duties required under applicable law in connection with any of our significant acquisitions or investments approved by the board; and • diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to address these uncertainties and risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we establish strategic alliances with various third parties to further our business purpose from time to time. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by the counter-party, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We have invested through open market purchases and in a private placement transaction a total of US$92 million in an 18.25% stake in Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc., a leading economy hotel chain in China. The purchase prices were determined based on the trading prices of Home Inns’ ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market at the time of each open market purchase or the average closing prices of Home Inns’ ADSs as stipulated in the relevant purchase agreement. If Home Inns experiences a net loss in the future, we would share the net loss of Home Inns proportionate to our equity interest in Home Inns. In addition, if the ADS price of Home Inns declines and becomes lower than our share purchase price in the long term, we would incur impairment loss under U.S. GAAP, which in turn would adversely affect our financial results for the relevant periods. 11 Table of Contents We rely on services from third parties to carry out our business and to deliver our products to customers, and if there is any interruption or deterioration in the quality of these services, our customers may not continue using our services. We rely on third-party computer systems to host our websites, as well as third-party licenses for some of the software underlying our technology platform. In addition, we rely on third-party air-ticketing agencies to issue air tickets and travel insurance products, confirmations and deliveries in some cities in China. Any interruption in our ability to obtain the products or services of these or other third parties or deterioration in their performance could impair the timing and quality of our own service. If our service providers fail to provide high quality services in a timely manner to our customers, our services will not meet the expectations of our customers and our reputation and brand will be damaged. In December 2008, one of our customers purchased two aviation insurance policies from one of our local third-party air-ticketing agencies. Such insurance policies turned out to be counterfeit. In March 2009, the customer filed a civil lawsuit against us in a local court in Kunming, Yunnan province, claiming economic compensation of approximately RMB100,000 (US$14,657). The court dismissed the case on jurisdictional grounds. This incident has triggered significant negative media coverage of our company in China. If similar incidents happen in the future and we are unable to deal with them properly, our public image may suffer and our customers may cease to use our services, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operation. If our hotel suppliers or customers provide us with untrue information regarding our customers’ stay, we may not be able to recognize and collect revenues to which we are entitled. A substantial portion of our revenues are represented by commissions which hotels pay us for room nights booked through us. Generally, we do not receive payment from our customers on behalf of our hotel suppliers, as our customers pay hotels directly. To confirm whether a customer adheres to the booked itinerary, we routinely make inquiries with the hotel and, occasionally, with the customer. We rely on the hotel and the customer to give us truthful information regarding the customer’s check-in and check-out dates, which forms the basis for calculating the commission we are entitled to receive from the hotel. If our hotel suppliers or customers provide us with untrue information with respect to our customers’ length of stay at the hotels, we would not be able to recognize revenues to which we are entitled. In addition, using such untrue information may lead to inaccurate business projections and plans, which may adversely affect our business planning and strategy. We may suffer losses if we are unable to predict the amount of inventory we will need to purchase during the peak holiday seasons. During the peak holiday seasons in China, we establish limited merchant business relationships with selected travel service suppliers, particularly for our packaged-tour products, in order to secure adequate supplies for our customers. In the merchant business relationship, we buy hotel rooms and/or air tickets before selling them to our customers and thereby incur inventory risk. If we are unable to correctly predict demand for hotel rooms and air tickets that we are committed to purchase, we would be responsible for covering the cost of the hotel rooms and air tickets we are unable to sell, and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If tax benefits available to our subsidiaries in China are reduced or repealed, our results of operations could suffer. Under the EIT law, FIEs and domestic enterprises are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. Certain enterprises will benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the EIT Law if they qualify as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State,” subject to certain general restrictions described in the EIT Law and the related regulations. In December 2008, our PRC subsidiaries, Ctrip Computer Technology, Ctrip Travel Information and Ctrip Travel Network were each designated by relevant local authorities in Shanghai as a “high and new technology enterprise” under the EIT Law. Therefore, these entities are entitled to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% as long as they maintain their qualification for “high and new technology enterprise,” which is subject to reevaluation in three years. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will continue to qualify as high and new technology enterprises when they are subject to reevaluation in the future. In the event that the preferential tax treatment for them is discontinued, these entities will become subject to the standard 25% EIT rate, which could materially increase our tax obligations. We may be subject to additional business tax for our hotel reservation services. Some of our hotel reservation services customers prepay for their expected hotel stays with the entire amount of hotel charges before checking in. As a result, we issue them invoices representing the entire amount of their expected hotel charges. Although we only recognize commissions on such hotel reservations as revenues, we cannot assure that, in these cases, the PRC tax authorities will not deem the entire invoiced amount as our revenue and impose business tax on such amount. Payment of business tax on the full amounts represented by these invoices may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have sustained losses in the past and may experience earnings declines or net losses in the future. We sustained net losses in the periods prior to 2002. We cannot assure you that we can sustain profitability or avoid net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase and the degree of increase in these expenses is largely based on anticipated organizational growth and revenue trends. As a result, any decrease or delay in generating additional sales volume and revenues could result in substantial operating losses. 12 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation regarding information provided on our websites, which may be time-consuming to defend. Our websites contain information about hotels, flights, popular vacation destinations and other travel-related topics. It is possible that if any information accessible on our websites contains errors or false or misleading information, third parties could take action against us for losses incurred in connection with the use of such information. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend, result in litigation and divert management’s attention and resources. We could be liable for breaches of security on our websites and fraudulent transactions by users of our websites. We conduct a portion of our transactions through our websites. In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ itineraries, hotel and other reservation information, credit card information, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks is essential to maintain consumer and supplier confidence. Our current security measures may not be adequate. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer or supplier information and could harm our reputation and ability to attract customers. Inflation in China may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations Historically, China has experienced significant inflation and we cannot assure you that further inflation will not occur in the future. If inflation recurs, the scope and the extent of inflation could adversely affect the Chinese economy and both business and personal travel behavior. If inflation leads to a reduction in business and leisure travel, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that, under competitive pressure, we will be able to implement price increases, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recurrence of SARS and other similar outbreaks such as H1N1 flu (swine flu) or avian flu as well as natural disasters may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In early 2003, several regions in Asia, including Hong Kong and China, were affected by the outbreak of SARS. The travel industry in China, Hong Kong and some other parts of Asia suffered tremendously as a result of the outbreak. Furthermore, in early 2008, severe snowstorms hit many areas of China and particularly affected southern China. The travel industry was severely and adversely affected during and after the snowstorms. Additionally, in May 2008, a major earthquake struck China’s populous Sichuan province and was felt across much of the country, causing great loss of life, numerous injuries, property loss and disruption to the local economy. The earthquake had an immediate impact on our business as a result of the sharp decrease in travel in the relevant earthquake affected areas in Sichuan province. Finally, in April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu (swine flu) occurred in Mexico and the United States and human cases of swine flu were discovered in China and Hong Kong. Our business and operating results were adversely affected in all cases. A recurrence of an outbreak of SARS, avian flu, swine flu or other contagious diseases, extreme unexpected bad weather or severe natural disasters would affect our business and operating results. Ongoing concerns regarding contagious disease or natural disasters, particularly its effect on travel, could negatively impact our China-based customers’ desire to travel. If there is a recurrence of an outbreak of certain contagious diseases or natural disasters, travel to and from affected regions could be curtailed. Government advice regarding or restrictions on travel to and from these and other regions on account of outbreak of any contagious disease or occurrence of natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and generally do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. Business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, but we have determined that the risks of disruption, the cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make it impractical for us to have such insurance. We do not maintain insurance coverage for any kinds of business liabilities or disruptions and would have to bear the costs and expenses associated with any such events out of our own resources. We face a greater risk of doubtful accounts as our corporate travel business increases in scale. Since we began providing travel booking services to corporate customers who generally request credit terms, our accounts receivable have increased. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payment fully and in a timely manner on our outstanding accounts receivable from our corporate travel service customers. As a result, we may face a greater risk of non-payments in our accounts receivable and, when our corporate travel business grows in scale, we may need to make increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Our operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully manage our accounts receivable. 13 Table of Contents As we have commenced accounting for employee share options using the fair value method beginning from 2006, such accounting treatment could continue to significantly reduce our net income. Since 2006, we have accounted for share-based compensation in accordance with FASB Statement No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, or FAS No. 123R, which requires a public company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees based on the requisite service period of the share-based awards. Prior to 2006, we recorded share-based compensation to the extent that the fair value of the shares on the date of grant exceeded the exercise price of the option. In 2008, share-based compensation expense reduced our diluted earnings per ADS by approximately US$0.27. The adoption of SFAS No.123R may continue to have a significant impact on our net income. In addition, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair-value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity awards granted may also create uncertainty as to the amount of future share-based compensation expense. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm attested the effectiveness of our internal control and reported that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In particular, the current financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, future measures to control the pace of economic growth may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Future movements in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the RMB may adversely affect the value of our ADSs. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. The conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a greater fluctuation range between the RMB and the U.S. dollar and caused the RMB to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of the RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. With this increased floating range, the RMB’s value may appreciate or depreciate significantly against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. For example, the RMB appreciated approximately 27% against the Euro between July 2008 and November 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a portion of our financial assets and our dividend payments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We have not used any forward contracts or currency borrowings to hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk. Any significant revaluation of the RMB or the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our cash flows, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs. For example, an appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into RMB, our reporting currency. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because substantially all of our revenues are in the form of RMB, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended, the Rules. Under the Rules, RMB is freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiaries’ capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice, or Notice 75, in October 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equity interests in any onshore enterprise located in the PRC, referred to in the notice as a “special purpose company.” On May 29, 2007, SAFE further promulgated the guideline for Notice 75, or Guideline 106, which clarifies certain implementation questions of Notice 75. According to Notice 75 and Guideline 106, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of a special purpose company is also required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that special purpose company, any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose company are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their SAFE registration with the local branch of SAFE when such updates are required under applicable SAFE regulations. We have notified holders of ordinary shares of our company who we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. The failure or inability of our shareholders resident in the PRC to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject them to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. 15 Table of Contents Online payment systems in China are at an early stage of development and may restrict our ability to expand our online commerce service business. Online payment systems in China are at an early stage of development. Although major Chinese banks are instituting online payment systems, these systems are not as widely acceptable to consumers in China as in the United States and other developed countries. The lack of wide acceptance of online payment systems and concerns regarding the adequacy of system security may limit the number of online commerce transactions that we can service. If online payment services and their security capabilities are not significantly enhanced, our ability to grow our online commerce business may be limited. The Internet market has not been proven as an effective commercial medium in China. The market for Internet products and services in China has only recently begun to develop. The Internet penetration rate in China is lower than those in the United States and other developed countries. Since the Internet is an unproven medium for commerce in China, our future operating results from online services will depend substantially upon the increased use and acceptance of the Internet for distribution of products and services and facilitation of commerce in China. The Internet may not become a viable commercial marketplace in China for various reasons in the foreseeable future. More salient impediments to Internet development in China include: • consumer dependence on traditional means of commerce; • inexperience with the Internet as a sales and distribution channel; • inadequate development of the necessary infrastructure to facilitate online commerce; • concerns about security, reliability, cost, ease of deployment, administration and quality of service associated with conducting business and settling payment over the Internet; • inexperience with credit card usage or with other means of electronic payment; and • limited use of personal computers. If the Internet is not widely accepted as a medium for online commerce in China, our ability to grow our online business would be impeded. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our wholly-owned subsidiaries incorporated in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. In addition, we depend on several affiliated Chinese entities in China to honor their service agreements with us. Almost all of these agreements are governed by PRC law and disputes arising out of these agreements are expected to be decided by arbitration in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit remedies available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We have attempted to comply with the PRC government regulations regarding licensing requirements by entering into a series of agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities. If the PRC laws and regulations change, our business in China may be adversely affected. To comply with the PRC government regulations regarding licensing requirements, we have entered into a series of agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities to exert our operational control over them and secure consulting fees and other payments from them. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that our arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities are valid under current PRC law and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will not be required to restructure our organization structure and operations in China to comply with changing and new PRC laws and regulations. Restructuring of our operations may result in disruption of our business, diversion of management attention and the incurrence of substantial costs. The continued growth of the Chinese Internet market depends on the establishment of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure. Although private sector Internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operations under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. In addition, the national networks in China connect to the Internet through government-controlled international gateways. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic Chinese user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure, China Telecom and China Netcom to provide data communications capacity primarily. Although the government has announced plans to aggressively develop the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Shares and ADSs The future sales by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Any future sales of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through our wholly-owned subsidiaries and several affiliated Chinese entities in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Under our deposit agreement, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given or any of the other situations specified under the deposit agreement takes place. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 17 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. The sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after exercise of rights may be restricted. If we offer holders of our ordinary shares any rights to subscribe for additional shares or any other rights, the depositary may make these rights available to you. However, the depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, you will receive no value for them. In addition, U.S. securities laws may restrict the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after exercise of rights. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. We can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. Provisions of our shareholder rights plan could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In November 2007, we adopted a shareholder rights plan. Although the rights plan will not prevent a takeover, it is intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover by potentially significantly diluting an acquirer’s ownership interest in our outstanding capital stock. The existence of the rights plan may also discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our ADSs. 