ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The high level of competition in our industry could harm our business, financial performance, market share and profitability. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. The business of selling cosmetics is highly competitive. This market includes numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers and retailers that actively compete for consumers both in the United States and abroad. The cosmetics market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. In addition, our products may be, or are at the risk of becoming, obsolete due to new product introductions or new technologies. Our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products and technologies that are superior to ours, produce similar products at a lower cost than we can or adapt more quickly to consumer preferences. Any of these developments would harm our operating results. We compete in select product categories against a number of multinational manufacturers, many of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Therefore, these larger competitors have the ability to spend more aggressively on advertising, marketing and research and to grow more quickly through acquisitions. Our largest competitors currently sell their products in twice as many stores as we do and have significantly more selling space per store than we do. In addition, our current product lines compete in only approximately half of the cosmetics categories and we may not be able to compete successfully with companies with broader product offerings. Our competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below the prices at which our products are typically offered. Competitive pricing may require us to reduce our prices, which would decrease our profitability or result in lost sales. Our competitors, many of whom have greater resources than we do, may be better able to withstand these price reductions and lost sales. We cannot assure you that future price or product changes by our competitors will not adversely affect our net sales or that we will be able to react with price or product changes of our own to maintain our current market position. 12 We depend on a limited number of retailer customers for a majority of our sales and the loss of one or more of these customers would reduce our sales and harm our market share and our business. We depend on a small number of core retailer customers for a majority of our sales, including Wal-Mart, CVS, Walgreens and Target. Sales to these four retailer customers accounted for an aggregate of 67% of our gross sales in 2006, with sales to each of these customers accounting for greater than 10% of our gross sales in 2006. None of our customers is under an obligation to continue purchasing products from us in the future. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with our customers means that we have no recourse in the event a customer no longer wants to purchase products from us. In the future, retailers in the mass market channel may undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations, close stores or otherwise suffer losses, any of which could decrease their orders for our products. The loss of one or more of our customers that, individually or in the aggregate, accounts for a significant portion of our sales, any significant decrease in sales to those customers, any significant decrease in our retail selling space in any of those customers’ stores, an interruption or decline of our customers’ business or a successful demand by those customers that we decrease our prices would reduce our sales and harm our business. Fluctuations in buying decisions of our retailer customers, the trend toward retail consolidation and changing policies and demands of our customers could harm our business. We currently sell our products primarily in the mass market channel. Consequently, our sales are affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of our retailer customers and consumers who shop in the mass market channel. These fluctuations may result from economic conditions or other factors. In addition, with the growing trend towards retail consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon a few leading retailers, such as Wal-Mart, CVS, Walgreens and Target, whose bargaining strength continues to grow due to their size. These customers have demanded, and may continue to demand, increased service and order accommodations. For example, for our Mineral Wear products, our customers have demanded new permanent fixtures, which are wall merchandising fixtures located in retail stores that display products. Our customers have also demanded assistance with installation of new permanent fixtures and resets of our wall displays, which typically requires us to hire a third-party vendor to provide these services. Our customers could also demand incremental trade allowance investments such as cash discounts, markdown allowances, in-store retailer advertising, coupon expense and other miscellaneous retailer allowances, and could require us to invest in radio frequency identification, an automatic data capture technology that uses “smart tags” attached to inventory for purposes of inventory control, or source tagging, a security tag attached to inventory. Our customers could also demand price decreases that would negatively impact our margins. As a result, we may face substantially increased expenses to meet these demands, which would reduce our margins. We also may be negatively affected by changes in the policies and demands of our retail customers relating to service levels, inventory de-stocking or limitations on access to wall display space. If our products do not appeal to a broad range of consumers, our sales and our business would be harmed. Our success depends on our products’ appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. If our current products do not meet consumer demands, our sales will decline. In addition, our growth depends upon our ability to develop new products through new product lines, product line extensions and product improvements, which involve numerous risks. New product launches are essential to our continued growth. New products have contributed, on average, approximately 38% of our net sales for the last three years and approximately 44% of our net sales in 2006. As we grow, our reliance on new products may increase. We may not be able to accurately identify consumer preferences, translate our knowledge into consumer-accepted products or successfully integrate new products with our existing product platform or operations. We may also 13 experience increased expenses incurred in connection with product development or marketing and advertising that are not subsequently supported by a sufficient level of sales, which would negatively affect our operating results. Unsuccessful product launches could also result in increased inventory write-downs. Furthermore, product development may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could cause sales of our existing products to suffer. We may not be able to successfully develop new products in the future, and our newly developed products may not contribute favorably to our operating results. We are a small and rapidly growing company that relies on a few key employees to ensure that our business operates efficiently. If we were to lose the services of any of these key employees, we would experience difficulty in replacing them, which would affect our business operations and harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the business expertise and continued contributions of our senior management team of only three individuals, any one of whom would be difficult to replace. As a result, our future results will depend significantly upon the efforts and retention of key employees, such as Ingrid Jackel, our Chief Executive Officer who is also currently and has historically been responsible for marketing and research and development, Jeff Rogers, our President who is also currently and has historically been responsible for sales, and Joseph J. Jaeger, our Chief Financial Officer who is also responsible for operations, human resources and legal functions. We rely on this group of three individuals, who have an average of 19 years of cosmetics industry experience, for managing our company, developing our business strategy and maintaining our strategic relationships with our key retailer customers. Because we are a small and rapidly growing company, we believe that the loss of key personnel would be more disruptive to us than it would be to a large, multinational manufacturer. Any of these employees could, with little or no prior notice, voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We only maintain a life insurance policy on Ingrid Jackel. The loss of service of any of these key employees would harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our senior management team may not be able to successfully manage our company as it grows larger. If they are unable to handle these increased responsibilities and we are unable to identify, hire and integrate new personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Even if we are able to identify new personnel, the integration of new personnel into our business will inevitably occur over an extended period of time. During that time, the lack of sufficient senior management personnel would cause our results of operations to suffer. Our initiatives to expand into new product categories may not be successful and any failure to expand into new product categories would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth potential. In order to expand our business, we plan to further develop products in cosmetics subcategories such as foundation, mascara and lip products. We currently offer products in only approximately half of the cosmetics categories, and expansion into new cosmetics categories is a critical component of our growth strategy. We may not be successful in our expansion efforts in these areas. Each of these product initiatives involves significant risks, as well as the possibility of unexpected consequences, including: · sales of the new products to our retailer customers may not be as high as we anticipate; · the rate of purchases by consumers may not be as high as we or our retailer customers anticipate; · returns of new products by retailer customers may exceed our expectations; · our marketing strategies and merchandising efforts may be ineffective and fail to reach the targeted consumer base or engender the desired consumption; 14 · we may incur unexpected costs as a result of the continued development and launch of new products; · our pricing strategies may not be accepted by our retailer customers and/or their consumers; · we may experience a decrease in sales of our existing products as a result of introducing new products; · there may be delays or other difficulties impacting our ability, or the ability of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers, to timely manufacture, distribute and ship products in connection with launching new products; and · attempting to accomplish all of the elements of expansion in multiple product categories simultaneously may prove to be an operational and financial burden on us and we may be unable to successfully accomplish all of the elements of the expansion simultaneously, if at all. Each of the risks referred to above could delay or impede our ability to successfully expand into new product categories, which would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth potential. We may be unable to increase our sales through new and existing distribution channels which would limit our growth and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The mass market channel is currently the only significant distribution channel for our products. Products similar to ours are sold in department stores, door-to-door, on the Internet, through home shopping television shows, by mail-order and through telemarketing by representatives of direct sales companies. Our growth strategy includes entering new distribution channels such as home shopping television. Any failure to successfully enter new distribution channels could limit our growth. In addition, consumers could choose to increasingly purchase cosmetics at department stores, high-end specialty retailers or in other distribution channels in which we do not participate. Our ability to continue to grow and achieve similar profit margins is dependent on our continued expansion in the mass market channel. Our failure to successfully expand in the mass market channel would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors currently sell to the same retailer customers that we do, but their products are sold in more of those retailers’ stores and they are allocated more shelf space in those stores. Our growth strategy includes increasing store count with these retailers and expanding the space within the existing stores that currently sell our products. If we fail to increase the number of stores or the amount of space within those stores in which we sell our products, it would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The requirements associated with being a public company will require significant company resources and management attention. As a result of the initial public offering, we have become subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we have not incurred as a nonpublic company. We expect that, because of these additional expenses, our general and administrative expenses will exceed those incurred in 2006. However, we cannot predict or estimate with certainty the amount of the additional costs that we may incur, the timing of such costs or the degree of impact that our management’s attention to these matters will have on our business. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we hired one full time employee to assist 15 with public company reporting requirements and, in the first quarter of 2007, we hired one more full time employee to work on Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance. Hiring and supporting new employees could result in significant costs to us. Our current senior management team consists of three individuals. The requirements associated with being a public company could place a strain on our senior management team. We have hired an investor relations firm which will increase our costs. Further, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our corporate governance standards, disclosure controls and financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. Our failure to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, could harm our business and operating results. Effective internal controls are necessary in order to enable us to produce reliable financial reports and prevent financial fraud. Any failure to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud would harm our business and operating results and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations which would cause our stock price to suffer. If we are unable to successfully execute any material part of our growth strategy, our future growth and ability to make profitable investments in our business would be harmed. Our ability to succeed depends on our ability to grow our business while maintaining profitability. Introducing new products and expanding our distribution have contributed significantly to our recent results, but we must continue to develop new and innovative products and expand our distribution in order to maintain our growth and profitability. We are heavily dependent on new products, which have contributed, on average, approximately 38% of our net sales in the last three years and approximately 44% of our net sales in 2006. We may not be able to sustain our growth or profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Our future growth and profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: · the level of competition in the cosmetics industry; · our ability to continuously offer new products; · our ability to maintain efficient, timely and cost-effective production and delivery of our products; · our ability to obtain sufficient production capacity for our products; · the efficiency and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts in building product and brand awareness; · our ability to identify and respond successfully to emerging trends in the beauty industry; · the level of consumer acceptance of our products; and · general economic conditions and consumer confidence. We may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and even if we achieve targeted growth, we may not be able to sustain profitability. Failure to successfully execute any material part of our growth strategy would significantly impair our future growth and our ability to make profitable investments in our business. 16 We may be unable to manage our growth effectively, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have grown rapidly, with our net sales increasing from $62.3 million in 2004 to $95.4 million in 2006. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management team, information systems, labor, assembly and distribution capacity and other resources. We are currently running two shifts at our City of Industry facilities. We expect to use some outsourced manufacturing in the fourth quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2008 to meet anticipated demand. Outsourcing manufacturing could impact our ability to maintain our quality standards, which could harm our reputation. We could also be forced to extend the second shift or add a third shift in the fourth quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2008, which would be more expensive and would negatively affect our operating margins. We have leased additional temporary space for manufacturing assembly and component storage and we expect to maintain additional manufacturing assembly and component storage space through 2007 and beyond, which could negatively affect our operating margins. We may experience additional constraints on capacity in the future. If we are unable to effectively address our capacity constraints or manage our future growth, our failure to do so would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the expenditures we will need to make in the future. If we do not make, or are unable to make, the necessary overhead expenditures to accommodate our future growth, we may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and our prospects and results of operations would suffer. In addition, if retailer customer demand exceeds forecasts, we could, from time to time, have an inadequate supply of products to meet customer demands. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property our ability to compete would be negatively impacted. We attempt to protect our intellectual property under the patent and trademark laws. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names. We own the material trademarks and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products. Therefore, trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. Although we have registered or applied to register many of our trademarks in the United States and in certain foreign countries, we cannot assure you that all of our trademark applications will be approved. We also own design patents that relate to some of our products. The design patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Although we have registered or applied to register additional design patents in the United States and in certain foreign countries, we cannot assure you that any of our design patent applications will be approved. In addition, we do not own any formula patents. Our suppliers or other third parties hold certain formula patents for the manufacture of our products. If our relationships with our suppliers were interrupted or terminated, or if we are unable to use formulas covered by third-party patents, our business could be harmed and it would negatively impact our results of operations. Third parties may also oppose our trademark and design patent applications, or otherwise challenge our use of our trademarks or design patents. We cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks or our design patents, or that we will have adequate time and resources to enforce our trademarks and design patents and to protect our rights through litigation or otherwise, or that we will be successful in doing so. 17 We also face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could expose us to the following risks, among others: · we may be required to defend against infringement claims which are expensive and time consuming; · we may be required to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · we may be required to re-design, re-engineer or re-brand our products or packaging; or · we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any of these outcomes would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will require a significant amount of cash, and any failure to generate and raise sufficient cash would impair our ability to support our future growth or operating requirements, which would harm our business. Our ability to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. We estimate that our net working capital requirements will increase by $12.8 million, or approximately 65.3%, to $32.4 million in 2007 from $19.6 million in 2006 due primarily to the impact of our sales growth on our receivables and inventory levels. We have budgeted capital expenditures of $2.5 million for 2007, compared to $1.0 million in 2006. This increase is due to incremental spending on several important projects, including the partial payment for an automated assembly line, investment in our information technology infrastructure and improvements to our warehouse distribution systems. Our ability to generate future cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will continue to generate cash flow from operations at current levels or that our cash needs will not increase beyond what we currently anticipate our cash needs to be. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, certain of our stockholders can require us to register additional shares of common stock held by them pursuant to a registration agreement. A registration and subsequent sale of common stock by such stockholders could result in a decreased market for our equity which would harm our ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, accordingly, our business, financial condition or results of operations would suffer. Any variation in the quality of our products or delay in our ability to fill orders would harm our relationships with our retailer customers. Our success depends upon our quality control and on our ability to deliver products in a timely manner. If our products are not delivered according to retailer customers’ delivery deadlines or are found to be defective or not to specification, our relationships with our customers would suffer, our brands’ reputation would be harmed and we could lose our market share. We could also experience increased return rates or become subject to liability claims. These negative results would have a harmful effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 We may not be able to successfully implement efficiency improvements or realize cost savings, which would harm our business. The automation of our assembly line and any other efficiency improvements we may undertake could involve substantial investments and are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Our implementation costs for the automated assembly line may turn out to be substantially higher than we currently estimate, and we may not fully achieve our expected cost savings within the anticipated time frame, if at all. We expect to experience some capacity constraints at our product assembly facility in the fourth quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2008, and our failure to successfully implement efficiency improvements and capacity expansion could result in additional capacity constraints in the future. Failure to implement this efficiency improvement would result in increased costs which would reduce our margins and harm our business. We purchase components and semi-finished goods from a limited number of third party suppliers, which reduces our control over the manufacturing process and may cause variations in quality or delays in our ability to fill orders. We purchase components, such as plastic compact containers or plastic tubes, and semi-finished goods, such as plastic compact containers or plastic tubes filled with product, from foreign and U.S. suppliers. We depend on these suppliers to deliver products that are free from defects, that comply with our specifications, that meet our delivery requirements and that are competitive in cost. If our suppliers deliver products that are defective or that otherwise do not meet our specifications, our product failure and return rates may increase, and the reputation of our products and the Physicians Formula brand may suffer. In addition, if our suppliers do not meet our delivery requirements or cease doing business with us for any reason, we might miss our retailer customers’ delivery deadlines, which could in turn cause our customers to cancel or reduce orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. Even if acceptable alternative suppliers are found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives is likely to disrupt our business and we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure alternative suppliers on acceptable terms that provide the same quality product or comply with all applicable laws. Extended unavailability of necessary components or finished goods would cause us to be unable to market one or more of our products for a period of time. Any of these events would cause our business, results of operations and financial condition to suffer. Further increases in the California or Federal minimum wage would increase our operating costs and harm our profitability. We pay the 150 to 450 workers provided to us by a third-party staffing service the California minimum wage, which is currently $6.75 per hour. On September 12, 2006, the State of California adopted legislation to increase the California minimum wage. Effective January 1, 2007, the California minimum wage increased to $7.50 per hour and will increase to $8.00 per hour on January 1, 2008. In addition, the increase in the minimum wage may lead to an increase in wages to our hourly employees who are currently paid above minimum wage. We expect the combined effect of these changes in wages to increase our cost of sales by approximately $450,000 in 2007 and by approximately $300,000 in 2008. The Federal minimum wage is currently lower than the California minimum wage. If the Federal minimum wage were increased to an amount greater than the California minimum wage, we would be required to pay the Federal minimum wage. Further increases in the California minimum wage, or increases in the Federal minimum wage to an amount higher than the California minimum wage, would increase our operating costs and harm our profitability. 19 Two of our facility leases expire on or before December of 2007. If we are unable to renew these leases on favorable terms or move to new facilities, our costs could increase, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The leases for our facilities in City of Industry expire in December 2007 and our short-term lease for our facility in Irwindale, California expires in April 2007. Whether we lease new facilities or remain in those facilities, we could be subject to increased rental rates. If we lease new manufacturing facilities, the costs associated with moving from our City of Industry facilities could be substantial. In addition, any move would be costly and could disrupt our operations and ability to meet our obligations to our retailer customers. Catastrophic loss, delays in deliveries or other disruptions at any of our facilities would negatively impact our business. Substantially all of our products are assembled at our two adjacent manufacturing facilities in City of Industry, California and our third facility in Irwindale, California. Significant unscheduled downtime at these facilities due to equipment breakdowns, fires, power failures, earthquakes and other natural disasters, severe weather conditions or other disruptions would adversely affect our ability to provide products to our retailer customers in a timely manner. Although we maintain insurance coverage for our facilities, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover all of our losses in the event of a catastrophic loss. Insurance could in the future become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We operate a facility in Azusa, California, which serves as our main distribution facility and our corporate headquarters. If operational complications arise with our Azusa facility or if our Azusa facility is severely damaged or destroyed, it would not be able to support our distribution needs. Any disruptions at our Azusa facility would adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our retailer customers on a timely basis. If we miss our retailers’ delivery deadlines or if our products fail to meet their specifications, our relationships with our customers would suffer and our business could be harmed. All of our facilities are located within 15 miles of each other in Southern California. We do not have other facilities in other regions from which to operate in the event of catastrophic loss, delays in deliveries, other disruptions or natural disasters. We are currently testing sales of a new brand called professional formula on a home shopping television channel. If our testing is successful and we begin to sell our products on a regular basis on a home shopping television channel, we could lose business from our existing retailer customers, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we sell products under the professional formula brand on a home shopping television channel, our retailer customers could perceive that we are directly competing with them, which could lead them to reduce or eliminate their purchases of our products. If any of our existing retailer customers decide to stop carrying our products or carry a smaller number of products, our sales and profitability would decrease significantly, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are successful in selling our products on a regular basis on a home shopping channel, we may not be able to protect the professional formula name because we have not registered it as a trademark. Our inability to protect the professional formula name could have an adverse impact on our successful expansion into sales on home shopping networks, which could negatively impact our future growth. 20 Regulations governing our industry could have a significant negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, registration, advertising, distribution, importation, storage and sale of our cosmetic products are subject to extensive regulation by various Federal agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the “FDA,” the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or the “FTC,” the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the “EPA,” and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed and sold. Our City of Industry, California facilities are registered with the FDA as drug manufacturing establishments, permitting the manufacture of cosmetics that contain over-the-counter drug ingredients such as sunscreen. Failure by us or our manufacturers to comply with those laws and regulations could lead to enforcement action and the imposition of significant penalties or claims, resulting in significant loss of sales, and could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with Federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, we could be required to suspend manufacturing operations, change product formulations, suspend the sale of certain products, initiate product recalls, change product labeling, packaging or advertising or take other corrective actions. Any of these actions could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing laws or regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of products. Our failure to comply with FDA, FTC, EPA or state laws and regulations, or with laws and regulations in foreign markets, that cover our advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products and our business. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or “FDCA,” cosmetics are defined as articles or components of articles that are applied to the human body and intended to cleanse, beautify or alter its appearance, with the exception of soap. Cosmetics are not subject to pre-market approval by the FDA but the product and ingredients must be tested to assure safety. If safety has not been adequately substantiated, a specific label warning is required. The FDA monitors compliance of cosmetic products through random inspection of cosmetic manufacturers and distributors to ensure that the products neither contain false or misleading labeling nor are manufactured under unsanitary conditions. Inspections also may occur from consumer or competitor complaints filed with the FDA. In the event the FDA does find false or misleading labeling or unsanitary conditions or otherwise a failure to comply with FDA requirements, our distribution channel may be affected by a possible product recall or insufficient product in the marketplace resulting in reduced product sales and revenue to us and increased costs to our operations. We also are subject to a variety of other laws and regulations in Canada and Australia. Our failure to comply, or assertions that we have failed to comply, with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business in a particular market or in general. To the extent we decide to commence or expand operations in additional countries, laws and regulations in those countries, or the cost of complying with such laws and regulations, may prevent or delay entry into or expansion of operations in those markets or could have a negative effect on our operating margins for products sold in those countries. Regulatory requirements can vary widely from country to country and could further delay the introduction of our products into those countries. We may not be able to enter into acceptable agreements to market and commercialize our products in international markets. Our ability to sustain satisfactory levels of sales in our markets is dependent in significant part on our ability to introduce additional products into those markets. Government laws and regulations in both our domestic and international markets can delay or prevent the introduction, or require the reformulation or withdrawal, of our products. 21 Inability to obtain regulatory approval for our manufacturing facility or the need to open new facilities may delay or disrupt our commercialization efforts. Our manufacturing facility must be regularly inspected and approved by the FDA because we manufacture products that contain FDA-regulated ingredients. All processes, methods and equipment must be compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or “cGMP,” approved by the FDA, and cGMP requires extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process, documentation policies and procedures. In complying with cGMP, we are obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to ensure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could experience product liability claims from customers purchasing our product and we could be subject to possible regulatory action. If an inspection by the FDA or state or other foreign regulatory authority indicates that there are deficiencies, we would be required to take remedial actions or our facility may be closed, and we may be subject to additional enforcement activity. We may need to develop additional manufacturing facilities based on expanded product development, FDA regulatory requirements or other unforeseen market pressures. Preparing a facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays, and the costs of building a facility in compliance with state, local and FDA regulations may be higher than we anticipated. The regulatory status of our products could change, and we may be required to conduct clinical trials to establish efficacy and safety or cease to market some or all of our products, which would require significant time and resources. The FDA does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the FDA. However, the FDA may in the future determine to regulate our cosmetics or the ingredients included in our cosmetics as drugs or biologics. If certain of our products are deemed to be drugs or biologics, rather than cosmetics, we would be required to conduct clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of these products in order to continue to market and sell them. In such event, we may not have sufficient resources to conduct the required clinical trials, we may not be able to establish sufficient efficacy or safety to resume the sale of these products, we may not gain regulatory approval of the trial design, the clinical trials may be subject to unanticipated delays due to their time-consuming nature and the outcome of any clinical trial is uncertain. Any inquiries by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authorities into the regulatory status of our cosmetics and any related interruption in the marketing and sale of these products could severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, as well as our relationships with retailer customers, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our foundations and concealers are considered over-the-counter, or “OTC,” drug products by the FDA. The FDA regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of OTC drug products pursuant to a monograph system that specifies active drug ingredients and acceptable product claims that are generally recognized as safe and effective for particular uses. If any of these products that are OTC drugs are not in compliance with the applicable FDA monograph, we would be required to (i) reformulate such product, (ii) cease to make certain use claims relating to such product or (iii) cease to sell such product until we receive further FDA approval. If more stringent regulations are promulgated, we may not be able to comply with such statutes or regulations without incurring substantial expense. In addition, OTC drug products must be manufactured in accordance with pharmaceutical good manufacturing practice regulations. Our OTC drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA as well as regular and ongoing inspections. In addition, inspections may be commenced as a result of consumer or competitor complaints related to our products. Corresponding state agencies may also inspect our facility to ensure strict compliance with drug good manufacturing practices and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We have minimal control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If the 22 FDA finds a violation of drug good manufacturing practices, it may enjoin the manufacturer’s operations, seize products, or criminally prosecute the manufacturer, any of which could require us to find alternative manufacturers, resulting in additional time and expense. Our products may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that would limit their use, require their removal from the market or prevent their further development. Product liability claims resulting from these undesirable side effects would hurt our business. In addition, we are vulnerable to claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings could result in the recall or discontinuance of sales of some or all of our products. Unexpected and undesirable side effects could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses in marketing new products. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to various product liability claims resulting from those undesirable side effects caused by our products. Product liability claims may result in negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products that may harm our reputation and sales. In addition, if one of our products is found to be defective we may be required to recall it, which may result in substantial expense, adverse publicity and loss of sales, which would substantially harm our brand. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of our policy, which would cause our financial condition to suffer. In addition, we may be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. In addition, consumer or industry analysts may assert claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. We are particularly susceptible to these risks because our marketing heavily relies on the assertions that our products adhere to our founder’s commitment to product purity and quality, are hypoallergenic and are ideal for women who have skin conditions that can be exacerbated by traditional cosmetics. Unexpected and undesirable side effects associated with our products or assertions that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be also could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and our business. Our business may be subject to environmental investigation, remediation and compliance costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to a range of Federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing discharges to air, soil and water, the handling and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from the release of hazardous substances. We believe that our business, operations and facilities are in material compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our City of Industry facility was contaminated, and subsequently remediated, by the former operator of the property. In addition, the facility is located within an area of regional groundwater contamination known as the Puente Valley “operable unit” of the San Gabriel Valley Superfund Site. We, along with many others, were named a potentially responsible party for the regional contamination by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. We are also one of approximately 25 parties considered potentially liable by a regional water authority for alleged contamination of the area’s potable water supply. To date, our liability for these matters has been substantially covered by indemnities and resolved by prior settlements, and borne by prior operators of the facility and the business, one of their successors and one of their insurers. We are, however, attempting to recoup approximately $0.7 million in defense costs from one of our indemnitors. These costs have been expensed as paid by us and are not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets. We may be subject to additional claims resulting from the historical site contamination and regional contamination. We have not established a reserve for additional claims, as we believe that it is not probable that we will be held liable for any of these claims. Failure by one or more of the responsible parties and/or our indemnitors to honor their obligations could cause us to incur liability which could be material. 23 We rely heavily on a staffing service to provide us with workers and could face significant employment claims that could harm our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. We have contracted with a staffing service to supply us with workers. The number of workers supplied by the staffing service varies between a minimum of approximately 150, and up to 450, based on seasonal demands for our products. Actions taken by these workers or the agency that provides them to us could subject us to significant liability. An inherent risk of using workers supplied by a third party is that we may face possible claims of employment of undocumented workers, claims of violations of the National Labor Relations Act, discrimination or harassment, claims under health and safety regulations and other related claims. We may also be subject to claims that these workers should be deemed our employees for ERISA, federal taxation or other purposes. Any of these claims could require us to pay substantial fines and monetary damages. In addition, we could face negative publicity that would harm our brand. Any of these negative consequences would harm our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. Our computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption, which could harm our business. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders on a timely basis is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our primary computer systems and operations are located at our Azusa facility and are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by our employees and retailer customers. Systems integration is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Since we do not currently have adequate offsite backup systems, if a catastrophic event occurred at our City of Industry, Azusa or Irwindale facilities, we would be required to purchase back-up computer and communications hardware and software systems, and integrate them with our existing systems, at a significant cost. During the period in which these new systems are being integrated, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Significant increases in fuel prices would adversely affect our financial results. Our freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges and price increases. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight cost both on inbound shipments from our suppliers to our assembly and distribution facilities and on outbound freight from our distribution center to our retailer customers. For example, fuel surcharges from one of our major freight carriers increased the outbound freight costs charged by them by 17.8% for 2006. We have experienced similar increases from other carriers. Increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses. We are subject to a variety of social, political and economic risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 7% of our net sales were attributable to our business in Canada and Australia. In addition, nine of our top 15 suppliers, which includes U.S. brokers that purchase raw materials, semi-finished goods and components on our behalf, are located in Europe or Asia. These nine foreign suppliers represented approximately 52% of our purchases of raw materials, semi-finished goods and components in 2006. In particular, we purchase significant portions of our powders from suppliers in Italy and our components from suppliers in China. We may encounter risks of doing business outside of the United States including: · unexpected changes in, or impositions of, laws or regulatory requirements; · fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which could cause fluctuations in the price of our products in foreign markets or in the cost of certain raw materials purchased by us; 24 · delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, potentially longer payment cycles, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and potentially adverse tax treatment; · potential trade restrictions and exchange controls; · differences in protection of our intellectual property rights; and · the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. In addition, as we grow, we will be increasingly subject to general geopolitical risks in foreign countries where we sell our products and purchase our raw materials, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, which could affect, among other things, retailer customers’ inventory levels and consumer purchasing, and which would cause our results to fluctuate. These risks are compounded by the fact that we purchase the majority of our raw materials, semi-finished goods and components from only two countries, Italy and China. Changes within these countries could impair our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has only been publicly traded since November 9, 2006 and the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. There has only been a public market for our common stock since November 9, 2006. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: · introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; · the gain or loss of significant customers or product orders; · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results; · the announcement of acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock; · changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by us or any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; and · market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, public announcements by our competitors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. Entities affiliated with Summit Partners have the ability to significantly influence our business, which may be disadvantageous to other stockholders and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2006, entities affiliated with Summit Partners (the “Summit Partners investors”), collectively, beneficially own approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets 25 and other corporate transactions. In addition, these stockholders may have interests that are different from ours. The Summit Partners investors could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may make it difficult for other stockholders to replace management. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with significant or controlling stockholders. This concentration could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with interests different from those of our principal stockholders and the trading price of shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. The Summit Partners investors do not have any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, none of the Summit Partners investors or any director, officer, stockholder, member, manager or employee of the Summit Partners investors will have any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do. In the event that any Summit Partners investor acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for itself and us, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Summit Partners investor will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty relating to such corporate opportunity. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and under the laws of the State of Delaware could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or otherwise effect a change of control of our company, which could diminish the value of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for stockholders to replace directors even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a stockholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a stockholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of any class of our outstanding voting stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: · stockholders have limited ability to call stockholder meetings and to bring business before a meeting of stockholders; · stockholders may not act by written consent; · directors may only be removed from office for cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662¤3% of the total votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors; · our board of directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with such rights, powers and privileges as the board deems appropriate. 26 These provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to replace management and could have the effect of discouraging a future takeover attempt which is not approved by our board of directors but which individual stockholders might consider favorable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 