D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy may have a material and adverse effect on our business, and may materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions since 2008, and most of the world’s major economies have experienced recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and the markets are facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis after 2011. There is considerable future uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in higher oil prices and significant market volatility. There have also been concerns about natural disasters and political and diplomatic tensions in Asia, including in Thailand, Japan and the Philippines. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Our business and operations are primarily based in China and the majority of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the economy and travel industry in China. Although the economy in China has grown significantly in the past decades, any severe or prolonged slowdown in the global and/or Chinese economy could reduce expenditures for travel, which in turn may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Recovery of the Chinese economy since 2010 has been uneven. It was relatively stable in 2011, and the growth rate of China’s GDP decreased in 2012 and remained relatively slow in 2013. It is unclear how the economy will fare in 2014 and beyond. Since we derive the majority of our revenues from hotel reservation, air-ticketing and packaged-tour services in China, any severe or prolonged slowdown in the global and/or Chinese economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, the weakness in the economy could erode consumer confidence which, in turn, could result in changes to consumer spending patterns relating to travel products and services. If consumer demand for travel products and services we offer decreases, our revenues may decline. Furthermore, continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. 4 Table of Contents General declines or disruptions in the travel industry may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is significantly affected by the trends that occur in the travel industry in China, including the hotel, air ticketing and packaged-tour sectors. As the travel industry is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. The recent worldwide recession has led to a weakening in the demand for travel services. Other trends or events that tend to reduce travel and are likely to reduce our revenues include: · an outbreak of H1N1 influenza, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or any other serious contagious diseases; · increased prices in the hotel, air-ticketing, or other travel-related sectors; · increased occurrence of travel-related accidents; · political unrest; · natural disasters or poor weather conditions; · terrorist attacks or threats of terrorist attacks or wars; and · any travel restrictions or other security procedures implemented in connection with any major events in China. We could be severely and adversely affected by declines or disruptions in the travel industry and, in many cases, have little or no control over the occurrence of such events. Such events could result in a decrease in demand for our travel services. This decrease in demand, depending on the scope and duration, could significantly and adversely affect our business and financial performance over the short and long term. The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In 2013, the trading prices of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from US$18.87 to US$61.09 per ADS, and the closing price on March 27, 2014 was US$47.01 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · conditions in the Internet or travel industries; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other Internet or travel companies or other companies that primarily operate in China; · changes in major business terms between our travel suppliers and us; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · market and volume fluctuations in the stock market in general. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies and companies with operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of the securities of these China-based companies after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. Furthermore, some negative news and perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure including the use of variable interest entities or other matters of other China-based companies have negatively affected the attitudes of investors towards China-based companies, including us, in general in the past, regardless of whether we have engaged in any inappropriate activities, and any news or perceptions with a similar nature may continue to negatively affect us in the future. In addition, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets, such as the large decline in share prices in the United States, China and other jurisdictions in late 2008, early 2009, the second half of 2011 and the first half of 2012. These broad market and industry fluctuations may continue to adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted share-based awards. 5 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain existing relationships with travel suppliers and strategic alliances, or establish new arrangements with travel suppliers and strategic alliances at or on favorable terms or at terms similar to those we currently have, our business and profit margins may suffer. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our existing hotel suppliers, or if our hotel suppliers establish similar or more favorable relationships with our competitors, or if our hotel suppliers increase their competition with us through their direct sales, our operating results and our business would be harmed, because we would not have the necessary supply of hotel rooms or hotel rooms at satisfactory rates to meet the needs of our customers, or because of reduced demand for our services. Our business depends significantly upon our ability to contract with hotels in advance for the guaranteed availability of certain hotel rooms. We rely on hotel suppliers to provide us with rooms at discounted prices. However, our contracts with our hotel suppliers are not exclusive and most of the contracts must be renewed semi-annually or annually. We cannot assure you that our hotel suppliers will renew our contracts in the future on favorable terms or terms similar to those we currently have agreed. The hotel suppliers may reduce the commission rates on bookings made through us. Furthermore, in order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to establish new arrangements with hotels and accommodations of all ratings and categories in our existing markets and in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify appropriate hotels or enter into arrangements with those hotels on favorable terms, if at all. This failure could harm the growth of our business and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, which consequently will impact the price of our ADSs. We derive revenues and other significant benefits from our arrangements with major domestic airlines in China and international airlines. Our airline ticket suppliers allow us to book and sell tickets on their behalf and collect commissions on tickets booked and sold through us. Although we currently have supply relationships with these airlines, they also compete with us for ticket bookings and have entered into similar arrangements with many of our competitors and may continue to do so in the future. Such arrangements may be on better terms than we have. In the past, airlines have from time to time reduced the commission rates on tickets booked and sold through us, which negatively affected our revenues from air-ticketing in the relevant periods. We cannot assure you that any of these airlines will continue to have supplier relationships with us or pay us commissions at the same or similar rates as what they paid us in the past. The loss of these supplier relationships or adverse changes in major business terms with our travel suppliers would materially impair our operating results and financial condition as we would lose an increasingly significant source of our revenues. Part of the revenues that we derive from our hotel suppliers, airline ticket suppliers and other travel service providers are obtained through our strategic alliances with various third parties. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to successfully establish and maintain strategic alliances with third parties which are effective and beneficial for our business. Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, revenue growth and profitability. If we fail to further increase our brand recognition, we may face difficulty in maintaining existing and acquiring new customers and business partners and our business may be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the Ctrip brand depends in part on our ability to grow our customer base and obtain new business partners. Some of our potential competitors already have well-established brands in the travel industry. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on our ability to maintain a sizeable and active customer base, maintain relationships with our business partners, provide high-quality customer service, properly address customer needs and handle customer complaints and organize effective marketing and advertising programs. If our customer base significantly declines, the quality of our customer services substantially deteriorates, or our business partners cease to do business with us, we may not be able to cost-effectively maintain and promote our brand, and our business may be harmed. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. We compete primarily with other consolidators of hotel accommodations and flight reservation services based in China, such as eLong, Inc., and Mangocity.com. We also compete with traditional travel agencies and new Internet travel search websites, such as Qunar.com and Taobao.com. In the future, we may also face competition from new players in the hotel consolidation market in China and abroad that may enter China. 6 Table of Contents We may face more competition from hotels and airlines as they enter the discount rate market directly or through alliances with other travel consolidators. In addition, international travelers have become an increasingly important customer base. Competitors that have strategic alliances with overseas travel consolidators may have more effective channels to direct on-line booking requests to their websites for travel needs in China. Furthermore, we do not have exclusive arrangements with our travel suppliers. The combination of these factors means that potential entrants to our industry face relatively low entry barriers. In the past, our competitors launched aggressive advertising campaigns, special promotions and engaged in other marketing activities to promote their brands, acquire new customers or to increase their market shares. In response to such competitive pressure, we started to take and may continue to take similar measures and as a result will incur significant expenses, which in turn could negatively affect our operating margins in the quarters or years when such promotional activities are carried out. For example, we launched a promotion program in recent years to offer certain selected air tickets, hotel rooms and package tours as well as grant of e-coupons to our customers in response to promotion campaigns that our competitors have launched. Primarily as a result of the enhanced marketing efforts and additional investment in product developments in response to the intensified market competition, our operational margin was negatively affected. In addition, some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages, such as significantly greater financial, marketing and strategic relationships and alliances or other resources or name recognition, and may be able to imitate and adopt our business model. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors. In the event we are not able to compete successfully, our business, results of operations and profit margins may be materially and adversely affected. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth. Our business has grown significantly as a result of both organic growth of existing operations and acquisitions. We have significantly expanded our operations and anticipate further expansion of our operations and workforce. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated future operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to improve and develop our financial and managerial controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. Our strategy to acquire or invest in complementary businesses and assets and establish strategic alliances involves significant risk and uncertainty that may prevent us from achieving our objectives and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our plan to expand our product and service offerings, we have made and intend to make strategic acquisitions or investments in the travel service industries in Greater China and overseas. Our strategic acquisitions and investments could subject us to uncertainties and risks, including: · high acquisition and financing costs; · potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · failure to achieve our intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; · cost of, and difficulties in, integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; · potential claims or litigation regarding our board’s exercise of its duty of care and other duties required under applicable law in connection with any of our significant acquisitions or investments approved by the board; and · diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to address these uncertainties and risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we establish strategic alliances with various third parties to further our business purpose from time to time. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by the counter-party, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We have invested through open market purchases and in a private placement transaction a total of US$92 million in an approximately 15.39% stake in Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc., or Home Inns, a leading economy hotel chain in China. The purchase prices were determined based on the trading prices of Home Inns’ ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market at the time of each open market purchase or the average closing prices of Home Inns’ ADSs as stipulated in the relevant purchase agreement. In March 2010, we invested a total of US$67.5 million in approximately 9% stake in China Lodging Group, Limited, or Hanting, a leading economy hotel chain in China, through private placement transactions and purchases in Hanting’s initial public offering. The purchase prices for shares acquired in both private placement transactions and the initial public offering were equal to Hanting’s initial public offering price. If the ADS price of Home Inns or Hanting declines and becomes lower than our share purchase price, we could incur impairment loss under U.S. GAAP, which in turn would adversely affect our financial results for the relevant periods. In addition, if any of these acquired entities incur a net loss in the future, we would share their net loss proportionate to our equity interest in them. 7 Table of Contents From time to time, we selectively acquired or invested in businesses that complement our existing business, and will continue to do so in the future. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company” for more details of our acquisitions and investments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the benefits we expected from such acquisitions or investments. Any actual or perceived failure to realize the benefits we expected from these acquisitions or investments may cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate because of seasonality in the travel industry in Greater China. Our business experiences fluctuations, reflecting seasonal variations in demand for travel services. For example, the first quarter of each year generally contributes the lowest portion of our annual net revenues primarily due to a slowdown in business activity around and during the Chinese New Year holiday, which occurs during the period. Consequently, our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our business may be harmed if our infrastructure and technology are damaged or otherwise fail or become obsolete. Substantially all of our computer and communications systems are located at two customer service centers, one in Shanghai and the other one in Nantong, China. Therefore our computer and communication systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, computer viruses, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, vandalism, natural disasters and other similar events. We do not carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. We use an internally developed booking software system that supports nearly all aspects of our booking transactions. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to upgrade our systems and infrastructure quickly enough to accommodate future traffic levels, avoid obsolescence or successfully integrate any newly developed or purchased technology with our existing system. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, poor customer service, impaired quality and speed of reservations and confirmations and delays in reporting accurate financial and operating information. These factors could cause us to lose customers and suppliers, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt our products and services to the changes in technologies and Internet user behavior. For example, the number of people accessing the internet through mobile devices, including smart devices, mobile phones, tablets and other hand-held devices, has increased in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue while 3G and more advanced mobile communications technologies are broadly implemented. If we fail to develop products and technologies that are compatible with all mobile devices and operating systems, or if the products and services we develop are not widely accepted and used by users of various mobile devices and operating systems, we may not be able to penetrate the mobile Internet market. In addition, the widespread adoption of new internet technologies or other technological changes could require significant expenditures to modify or integrate our products or services. If we fail to keep up with these changes to remain competitive, our future success may be adversely affected. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our key executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our key executives. We rely on their expertise in business operations, finance and travel services and on their relationships with our suppliers, shareholders, and business partners. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them. In that case, our business may be severely disrupted, we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any of these key executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers and suppliers. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you of the extent to which any of these agreements would be enforced in China, where most of these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract, train and retain key individuals and highly skilled employees, our business may be adversely affected. If our business continues to expand, we will need to hire additional employees, including travel supplier management personnel to maintain and expand our travel supplier network, information technology and engineering personnel to maintain and expand our websites, mobile platform, customer service centers and systems, and customer service representatives to serve an increasing number of customers. If we are unable to identify, attract, hire, train and retain sufficient employees in these areas, users of our websites, mobile platform and customer service centers may not have satisfactory experiences and may turn to our competitors, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The PRC government regulates the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and Internet industries. If we fail to obtain or maintain all pertinent permits and approvals or if the PRC government imposes more restrictions on these industries, our business may be adversely affected. The PRC government regulates the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and Internet industries. We are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities to conduct our business, including separate licenses for value-added telecommunications, air-ticketing, advertising and travel agency activities. If we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals in the future, we may be subject to various penalties, such as fines or suspension of operations in these regulated businesses, which could severely disrupt our business operations. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, the Civil Aviation Administration of China, or CAAC, together with National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, regulates pricing of air tickets. CAAC also supervises commissions payable to air-ticketing agencies together with China National Aviation Transportation Association, or CNATA. If restrictive policies are adopted by CAAC, NDRC, or CNATA, or any of their regional branches, our air-ticketing revenues may be adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent others from using our intellectual property, which may harm our business and expose us to litigation. We regard our domain names, trade names, trademarks and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We try to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademark protection and confidentiality laws and contracts. Trademark and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as that in the United States. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Any misappropriation could have a negative effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, we may need to go to court to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” We rely on services from third parties to carry out our business and to deliver our products to customers, and if there is any interruption or deterioration in the quality of these services, our customers may not continue using our services. We rely on third-party computer systems to host our websites, as well as third-party licenses for some of the software underlying our technology platform. In addition, we rely on third-party air-ticketing agencies to issue air tickets and travel insurance products, confirmations and deliveries in some cities in Greater China. We also rely on third party local operators to deliver on-site services to our packaged-tour customers. Any interruption in our ability to obtain the products or services of these or other third parties or deterioration in their performance, such as server errors or interruptions, could impair the timing and quality of our own service. If our service providers fail to provide high quality services in a timely manner to our customers or violate any applicable rules and regulations, our services will not meet the expectations of our customers and our reputation and brand will be damaged. Furthermore, if our arrangement with any of these third parties is terminated, we may not find an alternative source of support on a timely basis or on favorable terms to us. 9 Table of Contents If our hotel suppliers or customers provide us with untrue information regarding our customers’ stay, we may not be able to recognize and collect revenues to which we are entitled. A substantial portion of our revenues are represented by commissions which hotels pay us for room nights booked through us. Generally, we do not receive payment from our customers on behalf of our hotel suppliers, as our customers pay hotels directly. To confirm whether a customer adheres to the booked itinerary, we routinely make inquiries with the hotel and, occasionally, with the customer. We rely on the hotel and the customer to provide us truthful information regarding the customer’s check-in and check-out dates, which forms the basis for calculating the commission we are entitled to receive from the hotel. If our hotel suppliers or customers provide us with untrue information with respect to our customers’ length of stay at the hotels, we would not be able to collect revenues to which we are entitled. In addition, using such untrue information may lead to inaccurate business projections and plans, which may adversely affect our business planning and strategy. We may suffer losses if we are unable to predict the amount of inventory we will need to purchase during the peak holiday seasons. During the peak holiday seasons in China, we establish limited merchant business relationships with selected travel service suppliers, particularly for our packaged-tour products, in order to secure adequate supplies for our customers. In the merchant business relationship, we buy hotel rooms and/or air tickets before selling them to our customers and thereby incur inventory risk. If we are unable to correctly predict demand for hotel rooms and air tickets that we are committed to purchase, we would be responsible for covering the cost of the hotel rooms and air tickets we are unable to sell, and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The recurrence of SARS or other similar outbreaks of contagious diseases as well as natural disasters may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In early 2003, several regions in Asia, including Hong Kong and China, were affected by the outbreak of SARS. The travel industry in China, Hong Kong and some other parts of Asia suffered tremendously as a result of the outbreak of SARS. Furthermore, in early 2008, severe snowstorms hit many areas of China and particularly affected southern China. The travel industry was severely and adversely affected during and after the snowstorms. Additionally, in May 2008, a major earthquake struck China’s populous Sichuan Province, causing great loss of life, numerous injuries, property loss and disruption to the local economy. The earthquake had an immediate impact on our business as a result of the sharp decrease in travel in the relevant earthquake-affected areas in Sichuan Province. In 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 influenza (swine flu) occurred in Mexico and the United States and human cases of the swine flu were discovered in China and Hong Kong. In March 2011, a powerful earthquake hit Japan, and the subsequent tsunami and nuclear accidents had far-reaching impact on the surrounding economies. Starting from March 2013, H7N9 bird flu, a new strain of animal influenza, has been spreading in China and has infected more than a hundred people. In October 2013, large scale political protests began in Thailand that lasted several months and caused disruption to tourism and travel. In November 2013, one of the largest typhoons ever recorded hit the Philippines, causing widespread devastation. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, extreme unexpected bad weather or natural disasters would adversely affect our business and operating results. Ongoing concerns regarding contagious disease or natural disasters, particularly its effect on travel, could negatively impact our customers’ desire to travel. If there is a recurrence of an outbreak of certain contagious diseases or natural disasters, travel to and from affected regions could be curtailed. Government advice regarding, or restrictions on, travel to and from these and other regions on account of an outbreak of any contagious disease or occurrence of natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If tax benefits available to our subsidiaries in China are reduced or repealed, our results of operations could suffer. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, effective on January 1, 2008, foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, and domestic enterprises are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. Certain enterprises will benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the EIT Law if they qualify as “high and new technology enterprises,” subject to certain general restrictions described in the EIT Law and the related regulations. In December 2008, our PRC subsidiaries, Ctrip Computer Technology, Ctrip Travel Information, Ctrip Travel Network and Software Hotel Information were each designated by relevant local authorities as a “high and new technology enterprise” under the EIT Law with an effective period of three years. Therefore, these entities were entitled to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% from 2008 to 2011, as long as they maintained their qualifications for “high and new technology enterprises”. These four entities re-applied for this qualification after the effective period expired in 2011 and their applications were approved by the relevant government authority. The “high and new technology enterprises” status of these entities is subject to review every three years and we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will continue to qualify as high and new technology enterprises when they are subject to reevaluation in the future. In 2012, Chengdu Ctrip and Chengdu Ctrip International obtained approval from local tax authorities to apply the 15% tax rate for 2011 tax filing and for the year from 2012 to 2014. In 2013, Chengdu Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Chengdu Information, obtained approval from local tax authorities to apply the 15% tax rate for its 2012 tax filing and for the years from 2013 to 2016. In the event that the preferential tax treatment for these entities is discontinued, these entities will become subject to the standard tax rate at 25%, which would materially increase our tax obligations. 10 Table of Contents We have sustained losses in the past and may experience earnings declines or net losses in the future. We sustained net losses in the periods prior to 2002. We cannot assure you that we can sustain profitability or avoid net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase and the degree of increase in these expenses is largely based on anticipated growth, revenue trends and competitive pressure. As a result, any decrease or delay in generating additional sales volume and revenues and increase in our operating expenses may result in substantial operating losses. We may be subject to legal or administrative proceedings regarding information provided on our websites or other aspects of our business operations, which may be time-consuming to defend. Our websites contain information about hotels, flights, popular vacation destinations and other travel-related topics. It is possible that if any information accessible on our websites contains errors or false or misleading information, third parties could take action against us for losses incurred in connection with the use of such information. From time to time, we have become and may in the future become a party to various legal or administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to labor and employment claims, breach of contract claims, anti-competition claims and other matters. Although such proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of our current pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Regardless of the outcome and merit of such proceedings, however, any legal action can have an adverse impact on us because of defense costs, negative publicity, diversion of management’s attention and other factors. In addition, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more legal or administrative proceedings, whether in the PRC or in another jurisdiction, could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in a particular period or damage our reputation. We could be liable for breaches of Internet security or fraudulent transactions by users of our websites. The Internet industry is facing significant challenges regarding information security and privacy, including the storage, transmission and sharing of confidential information. In recent years, PRC government authorities have enacted legislation on Internet use to protect personal information from any unauthorized disclosure. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview—PRC Government Regulations—Internet Privacy.” We conduct a majority of our transactions through the Internet (including through our websites and mobile apps). In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ itineraries, hotel and other reservation information, credit card information, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks and ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, availability and authenticity of the information of our users, customers, hotel suppliers and airline partners is essential to maintain their confidence in our online products and services. Our current security measures may not be adequate and may contain deficiencies that we fail to identify, and advances in technology, increased levels of expertise of hackers, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or others could increase our vulnerability. For example, a third-party website with focus on Internet security information exchange released a news in March 2014 that as a result of a temporary testing function performed by us, certain data files containing customers’ credit card information had been stored on local servers maintained by us, which may lead to potential exposure of these customers’ information to hackers. We removed the cause of the potential security concern within two hours and then examined all other possible leaks and found that 93 customers’ credit card information might have been downloaded by the above-mentioned website for the purpose of confirming potential risks. Although to our knowledge, no customer has suffered financial loss or other damage due to the incident as of the date of this report, our business, results of operations, user experience and reputation may be materially and adversely affected if similar incidents related to Internet security recur in the future. In August 2011, China’s Supreme People’s Court and Supreme People’s Procuratorate issued judicial interpretations regarding hacking and other Internet crimes. However, its effect on curbing hacking and other illegal online activities still remains to be seen. Significant capital, managerial and human resources are required to enhance information security and to address any issues caused by security failures. If we are unable to protect our systems and the information stored in our systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction, such problems or security breaches may cause loss, expose us to litigation and possible liability to the owners of confidential information, disrupt our operations and may harm our reputation and ability to attract customers. We may be the subject of detrimental conduct by third parties including complaints to regulatory agencies, negative blog postings, and the public dissemination of malicious assessments of our business, which could have a negative impact on our reputation and cause us to lose market share, travel suppliers and customers and revenues, and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We may be the target of anti-competitive, harassing, or other detrimental conduct by third parties. Such conduct may include complaints, anonymous or otherwise, to regulatory agencies regarding our operations, accounting, revenues, business relationships, business prospects and business ethics. Additionally, allegations, directly or indirectly against us, may be posted in Internet chat-rooms or on blogs or any websites by anyone, whether or not related to us, on an anonymous basis. We may be subject to government or regulatory investigation as a result of such third-party conduct and may be required to expend significant time and incur substantial costs to address such third-party conduct, and there is no assurance that we will be able to conclusively refute each of the allegations within a reasonable period of time, or at all. Our reputation may also be negatively affected as a result of the public dissemination of anonymous allegations or malicious statements about our business, which in turn may cause us to lose market share, travel suppliers and customers and revenues and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. 11 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage in Greater China. Insurance companies in Greater China offer limited business insurance products and generally do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. Business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in Greater China, but we have determined that the risks of disruption, the cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make it impractical for us to have such insurance. We do not maintain insurance coverage for any kinds of business liabilities or disruptions and would have to bear the costs and expenses associated with any such events out of our own resources. We engage celebrities to be our brand ambassadors to market our brands and products. From time to time, we select celebrities to be our brand ambassadors to market our “Ctrip” brand or our products and services that are important to our business. However, we cannot give assurance that the endorsement from our brand ambassadors or related advertisements will remain effective, that the brand ambassador will remain popular or his or her images will remain positive and compatible with the messages that our brand and products aim to convey. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that we can successfully find suitable celebrities to replace any of our existing brand ambassador if the existing brand ambassador is no longer able or suitable to continue the engagement, and termination of such engagements may have a significant impact on our brand images and the promotion or sales of our products. If any of these situations occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may face greater risks of doubtful accounts as our corporate travel business increases in scale. Since we began providing travel booking services to corporate customers who generally request credit terms, our accounts receivable have increased. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payment fully and in a timely manner on our outstanding accounts receivable from our corporate travel service customers. As a result, we may face a greater risk of non-payment of our accounts receivable and, as our corporate travel business grows in scale, we may need to make increased provisions for doubtful accounts. Our operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully manage our accounts receivable. As we have commenced accounting for employee share options using the fair value method beginning in 2006, such accounting treatment could continue to significantly reduce our net income. Since 2006, we have accounted for share-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718”Compensation—Stock Compensation,” or ASC 718, which requires a public company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees based on the requisite service period of the share-based awards. We have granted share-based compensation awards, including share options and restricted share units, to employees, officers and directors to incentivize performance and align their interests with ours. We have adopted four share incentive plans, namely, the 2007 Share Incentive Plan, or the 2007 Plan, the 2005 Employee’s Stock Option Plan, or the 2005 Plan, the 2003 Employee’s Option Plan, or the 2003 Plan, and the 2000 Employee’s Stock Option Plan, or the 2000 Plan. Under the 2007 Plan, the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be issued pursuant to awards was 8,000,000 as of the first business day of 2014, with annual increases of 1,000,000 ordinary shares on the first business day of each subsequent calendar year until the termination of the plan. As a result of these grants and potential future grants, we had incurred in the past and expect to continue to incur in future periods significant share-based compensation expenses. The amount of these expenses is based on the fair value of the share-based awards. Our board of directors has the discretion to change terms of any previously issued share options and any such change may significantly increase the amount of our share-based compensation expenses for the period that the change takes effect as well as those for any future periods. In February 2009, our board of directors approved to reduce the exercise price of all outstanding unvested options that were granted by us in 2007 and 2008 under our 2007 Plan to the then fair market value of our ordinary shares underlying such options and, in December 2009, our board of directors approved to extend the expiration dates of all stock options granted in 2005 and 2006 to eight years after the respective original grant dates of these options. As a result of such changes, our share-based compensation expense of 2009 reduced our diluted earnings per ADS by approximately US$0.14. In February 2010, our compensation committee approved to extend the expiration dates of all stock options granted in and after 2007 to eight years after the respective original grant dates of these options. As a result of such changes, our share-based compensation expense of 2010 reduced our diluted earnings per ADS by approximately US$0.06. The application of ASC 718 will continue to have a significant impact on our net income. In addition, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity awards granted may also create uncertainty as to the amount of future share-based compensation expense. 12 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our published financial statements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm attested the effectiveness of our internal control and reported that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and proceeds from our financing activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In particular, the recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and value-added telecommunications businesses, and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations. We are a Cayman Islands incorporated company and a foreign person under PRC law. Due to foreign ownership restrictions in the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and value-added telecommunications industries, we conduct part of our business through contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities. These entities hold the licenses and approvals that are essential for our business operations. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, our current ownership structure, the ownership structure of our subsidiaries and our affiliated Chinese entities, the contractual arrangements among us, our subsidiaries, our affiliated Chinese entities and their shareholders, as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the opinion of our PRC legal counsel due to the lack of official interpretation and clear guidance. If we and our affiliated Chinese entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant governmental authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation, levying fines, confiscating our income or the income of our affiliated Chinese entities, revoking our business licenses or the business licenses of our affiliated Chinese entities, requiring us and our affiliated Chinese entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations and requiring us or our affiliated Chinese entities to discontinue any portion or all of our value-added telecommunications, air-ticketing, travel agency or advertising businesses. In particular, if the PRC government authorities impose penalties which cause us to lose our rights to direct the activities of and receive economic benefits from our consolidated affiliated Chinese entities, we may lose the ability to consolidate and reflect in our financial statements the operation results of our consolidated affiliated Chinese entities. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations, and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Under the equity pledge agreements between our subsidiaries and the shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities, the shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities pledged their respective equity interests in these entities to our subsidiaries. Such pledges were duly created by recording the pledge in the relevant affiliated Chinese entities’ register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Collateral Law. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, effective as of October 1, 2007, and the Measures for the Registration of Equity Pledge with the Administration for Industry and Commerce, effective as of October 1, 2008, the effectiveness of the pledges will be denied if the pledges are not registered with the Administration for Industry and Commerce. Our affiliated Chinese entities and our subsidiaries have registered all equity pledges. The effectiveness of the pledges will be recognized by PRC courts if disputes arise on certain pledged equity interests and that our subsidiaries’ interests as pledgees will prevail over those of third parties. Furthermore, we were aware that a China-based company listed in the U.S. announced in 2012 that it was subject to the SEC’s investigation which it believed related to the consolidation of its consolidated affiliated Chinese entities. Following the announcement, that issuer’s stock price declined significantly. Although we are not aware of any actual or threatened investigation, inquiry or other action by the SEC, NASDAQ or any other regulatory authority with respect to consolidation of our consolidated affiliated Chinese entities, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any such investigation or inquiry in the future. In the event we are subject to any regulatory investigation or inquiry relating to our consolidated affiliated Chinese entities, including the consolidation of such entities into our financial statements, or any other matters, we may need to spend significant amount of time and expenses in connection with the investigation or inquiry, our reputation may be harmed regardless of the outcome, and the trading price of our ADS may materially decline or fluctuate. If our affiliated Chinese entities violate our contractual arrangements with them, our business could be disrupted, our reputation may be harmed and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights, which may be time-consuming and expensive. As the PRC government restricts foreign ownership of value-added telecommunications, air-ticketing, travel agency and advertising businesses in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, in which we have no ownership interest, to conduct part of our non-hotel reservation business activities through a series of contractual arrangements, which are intended to provide us with effective control over these entities and allow us to obtain economic benefits from them. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that the contractual arrangements as described in this annual report are valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws, these arrangements are not as effective in providing control as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our affiliated Chinese entities could violate our contractual arrangements with them by, among other things, failing to operate our air-ticketing, packaged-tour or advertising business in an acceptable manner or pay us for our consulting or other services. In any such event, we would have to rely on the PRC legal system for the enforcement of those agreements, which could have uncertain results. Any legal proceeding could result in the disruption of our business, damage to our reputation, diversion of our resources and incurrence of substantial costs. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” The principal shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Our director, vice chairman of the board and president, Min Fan, our officers, Dongjie Guo and Maohua Sun were also the principal shareholders of our consolidated affiliated Chinese entities as of the date of this report. Thus, conflicts of interest between their duties to our company and our affiliated Chinese entities may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these persons will act entirely in our interests or that the conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these persons could violate their non-competition or employment agreements with us or their legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others, resulting in our loss of corporate opportunities. In any such event, we would have to rely on the PRC legal system for the enforcement of these agreements, which could have uncertain results. Any legal proceeding could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resources and incurrence of substantial costs. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities may result in adverse tax consequences to us. As a result of our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements between us and our affiliated Chinese entities, we are effectively subject to the 5% PRC business tax on both revenues generated by our affiliated Chinese entities’ operations in China and revenues derived from our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between us and our affiliated Chinese entities were not made on an arm’s-length basis and therefore constitute favorable transfer pricing arrangements. If this occurs, the PRC tax authorities could request that our affiliated Chinese entities adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our affiliated Chinese entities’ tax expenses without reducing our tax expenses, which could subject our affiliated Chinese entities to late payment fees and other penalties for underpayment of taxes, and/or result in the loss of the tax benefits available to our subsidiaries in China. The EIT Law requires every enterprise in China to submit its annual enterprise income tax return together with a report on transactions with its affiliates to the relevant tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm’s-length principles. As a result, our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities may result in adverse tax consequences to us. 14 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities in China are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries in China and consulting and other fees paid to us by our affiliated Chinese entities. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds unless these reserves have reached 50% of the subsidiaries’ registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Pursuant to the EIT Law and a circular issued by the PRC Ministry of Finance and the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, in February 2008, the dividends declared out of the profits earned after January 1, 2008 by an FIE to its immediate holding company outside China are subject to a 10% withholding tax unless such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement, and certain supplementary requirements and procedures stipulated by SAT for such tax treaty are met and observed. Our subsidiaries in China are considered FIEs and are directly held by our subsidiary in Hong Kong. According to the currently effective tax treaty between China and Hong Kong, dividends payable by an FIE in China to a company in Hong Kong which directly holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the FIE will be subject to a withholding tax of 5%. In February 2009, the SAT issued a new notice, Notice No. 81. According to Notice No. 81, in order to enjoy the preferential treatment on dividend withholding tax rates, an enterprise must be the “beneficial owner” of the relevant dividend income, and no enterprise is entitled to enjoy preferential treatment pursuant to any tax treaties if such enterprise qualifies for such preferential tax rates through any transaction or arrangement, the major purpose of which is to obtain such preferential tax treatment. The tax authority in charge has the right to make adjustments to the applicable tax rates, if it determines that any taxpayer has enjoyed preferential treatment under tax treaties as a result of such transaction or arrangement. In October 2009, the SAT issued another notice on this matter, Notice No. 601, to provide guidance on the criteria for determining whether an enterprise qualifies as the “beneficial owner” of the PRC sourced income for the purpose of obtaining preferential treatment under tax treaties. Pursuant to Notice No. 601, the PRC tax authorities will review and grant tax preferential treatment on a case-by-case basis and adopt the “substance over form” principle in the review. Notice No. 601 specifies that a beneficial owner should generally carry out substantial business activities and own and have control over the income, the assets or other rights generating the income. Therefore, an agent or a conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner of such income. Since the two notices were issued, it has remained unclear how the PRC tax authorities will implement them in practice and to what extent they will affect the dividend withholding tax rates for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China to our Hong Kong subsidiary. If the relevant tax authority determines that our Hong Kong subsidiary is a conduit company and does not qualify as the “beneficial owner” of the dividend income it receives from our PRC subsidiaries, the higher 10% withholding tax rate will apply to such dividends. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with its “de facto management body” within China is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, our global income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the EIT Law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. However, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret the PRC tax resident treatment of an offshore company, like us, having indirect ownership interests in PRC enterprises through intermediary holding vehicles. Moreover, under the EIT Law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by a Chinese entity and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is considered as income derived from within China. Any such tax would reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. The majority of our business operations are conducted in mainland China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, future measures to control the pace of economic growth may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Inflation in China may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy has experienced rapid expansion together with rising rates of inflation. Inflation may erode disposable incomes and consumer spending, which may have an adverse effect on the Chinese economy and lead to a reduction in business and leisure travel as the travel industry is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. This in turn could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future movements in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the RMB may adversely affect the value of our ADSs. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. The conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. As a consequence, the Renminbi fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. Since June, 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. The majority of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our financial assets and our dividend payments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We have not used any forward contracts or currency borrowings to hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi or the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our cash flows, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs. For example, an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB-denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for such purposes. An appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar-denominated financial assets into Renminbi, our reporting currency. Conversely, if we decide to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because the majority of our revenues are in the form of Renminbi, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, as amended, or the Rules. Under the Rules, Renminbi is freely convertible for trade- and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiaries’ capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. 16 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and the grant of employee stock options by overseas-listed companies may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice, or Notice 75, in October 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equity interests in any onshore enterprise located in China, referred to in the notice as a “special purpose company.” On May 20, 2011, SAFE promulgated the Implementation Guidelines for Foreign Exchange Administration of Financings and Return Investment by Onshore Residents Utilizing Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or the Guidelines, which became effective on July 1, 2011, clarifying certain implementation questions of Notice 75. According to Notice 75 and the Guidelines, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of a special purpose company is also required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that special purpose company for any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or the creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose company are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their SAFE registration with the local branch of SAFE when such updates are required under applicable SAFE regulations. We have notified holders of ordinary shares of our company who we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. The failure or inability of our shareholders resident in China to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject them to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in an Employees Share Incentive Plan of an Overseas-Listed Company (which is replacing the old circular, “Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in an Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of an Overseas-Listed Company”, of 2007), or the new Share Incentive Rule. Under the new Share Incentive Rule, PRC resident individuals who participate in a share incentive plan of an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. All such participants need to retain a PRC agent through PRC subsidiary to register with SAFE and handle foreign exchange matters such as opening accounts, transferring and settlement of the relevant proceeds. The Rule further requires that an offshore agent should also be designated to handle matters in connection with the exercise or sale of share options and proceeds transferring for the share incentive plan participants. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Share Incentive Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Online payment systems in China are at an early stage of development and may restrict our ability to expand our online commerce business. Online payment systems in China are at an early stage of development. Although major Chinese banks are instituting online payment systems, these systems are not as widely accepted by consumers in China as in the United States and other developed countries. The lack of wide acceptance of online payment systems and concerns regarding the adequacy of system security may limit the number of online commercial transactions that we can service. If online payment services and their security capabilities are not significantly enhanced, our ability to grow our online commerce business may be limited. The Internet market has not been proven as an effective commercial medium in China. The Internet penetration rate in China is lower than those in the United States and other developed countries. Our future operating results from online services will depend substantially upon the increased use and acceptance of the Internet for distribution of products and services and facilitation of commerce in China. The Internet may not become a viable commercial marketplace in China for various reasons in the foreseeable future. More salient impediments to Internet development in China include: · consumer dependence on traditional means of commerce; · inexperience with the Internet as a sales and distribution channel; · inadequate development of the necessary infrastructure to facilitate online commerce; · concerns about security, reliability, cost, ease of deployment, administration and quality of service associated with conducting business and settling payment over the Internet; · inexperience with credit card usage or with other means of electronic payment; and · limited use of personal computers. 17 Table of Contents If the Internet is not widely accepted as a medium for online commerce in China, our ability to grow our online business would be impeded. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our wholly owned subsidiaries incorporated in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign owned enterprises. In addition, we depend on several affiliated Chinese entities in China to honor their service agreements with us. Almost all of these agreements are governed by PRC law and disputes arising out of these agreements are expected to be decided by arbitration in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit remedies available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If we and our affiliated Chinese entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including restructuring. See “Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure—PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in the air-ticketing, travel agency, advertising and value-added telecommunications businesses, and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations.” Implementation of laws and regulations relating to data privacy in China could adversely affect our business. Certain data and services collected, provided or used by us or provided to and used by us or our users are currently subject to regulation in certain jurisdictions, including China. The PRC Constitution states that PRC laws protect the freedom and privacy of communications of citizens and prohibit infringement of such basic rights, and the PRC Contract Law prohibits contracting parties from disclosing or misusing the trade secrets of the other party. Further, companies or their employees who illegally trade or disclose customer data may face criminal charges. Although the definition and scope of “privacy” and “trade secret” remain relatively ambiguous under PRC law, growing concerns about individual privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals have led to national and local regulations that could increase our expenses. In December 2012, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress enacted the Decision to Enhance the Protection of Network Information, or the Information Protection Decision, to further enhance the protection of users’ personal information in electronic form. The Information Protection Decision provides that Internet information services providers must expressly inform their users of the purpose, manner and scope of the collection and use of users’ personal information by Internet information services providers, publish the Internet information services providers standards for their collection and use of users’ personal information, and collect and use users’ personal information only with the consent of the users and only within the scope of such consent. The Information Protection Decision also mandates that Internet information services providers and their employees keep users’ personal information that they collect strictly confidential, and that they must take such technical and other measures as are necessary to safeguard the information against disclosure, damages and loss. Pursuant to the Order for the Protection of Telecommunication and Internet User Personal Information issued by the MIIT in July 2013, any collection and use of user personal information must be subject to the consent of the user, abide by the principles of legality, rationality and necessity and be within the specified purposes, methods and scopes. Compliance with current regulations and regulations that may come into effect in these areas may increase our expenses related to regulatory compliance, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds from the offerings of any securities to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. In September 2012, we completed an offering of US$180 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2017. In October 2013, we completed another offering of US$800 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2018. As an offshore holding company, our ability to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries is subject to PRC regulations and approvals. These regulations and approvals may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds we received in the past or will receive in the future from the offerings of securities to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, and impair our ability to fund and expand our business which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and result of operations. 18 Table of Contents For example, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues concerning Administration Improvement of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, on August 29, 2008. Under Circular 142, registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies may only be used within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments in the PRC. In addition, foreign-invested companies may not change how they use such capital without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case use such capital to repay RMB loans if they have not used the proceeds of such loans. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. In addition, to strengthen Circular 142, on November 9, 2011 the SAFE promulgated the Circular on Further Clarifying and Regulating Relevant Issues Concerning the Administration of Foreign Exchange under Capital Account, or Circular 45, which prohibits a foreign invested company from converting its registered capital in foreign exchange currency into RMB for the purpose of making domestic equity investments, granting entrusted loans, repaying inter-company loans, and repaying bank loans that have been transferred to a third party. Circular 142, Circular 59 and Circular 45 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from offerings of our securities or any future offering to our PRC subsidiaries and convert the net proceeds into RMB, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. We have attempted to comply with the PRC government regulations regarding licensing requirements by entering into a series of agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities. If the PRC laws and regulations change, our business in China may be adversely affected. To comply with the PRC government regulations regarding licensing requirements, we have entered into a series of agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities to exert our operational control over them and secure consulting fees and other payments from them. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities, as described in this annual report, are valid under current PRC law and regulations, as there is substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree with our counsels’ position or that we will not be required to restructure our organizational structure and operations in China to comply with changing and new PRC laws and regulations. Restructuring of our operations may result in disruption of our business, diversion of management attention and the incurrence of substantial costs. The continued growth of the Chinese Internet market depends on the establishment of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure. Although private sector Internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operations under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. In addition, the national networks in China connect to the Internet through government-controlled international gateways. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic Chinese user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure, primarily China Telecom and China Unicom, to provide data communications capacity. Although the government has announced plans to aggressively develop the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the applicable professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to regularly evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 19 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in China, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. The accounting firms have the ability to appeal and the four firms which are subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC have indicated that they will appeal. The sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. The accounting firms can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. We are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is one of the four accounting firms subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. We may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. On May 24, 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the Ministry of Finance which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in the United States and China. However, it is not clear how these recent developments could affect the SEC’s final decision in the case against the five accounting firms or any subsequent appeal to courts that the accounting firms may initiate. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the final outcome of the administrative proceedings and the potential consequences thereof. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our ADSs from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The future sales of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. In the future, we may sell additional ADSs to raise capital, and our existing shareholders could sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market. We cannot predict the size of such future issuance or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price of our ADSs. Any future sales of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that such issuance and sale may occur, could adversely affect the price of our ADSs and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Provisions of our convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. In September 2012, we completed an offering of US$180 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2017. In October 2013, we completed another offering of US$800 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2018. Certain provisions of our convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. The indentures for these convertible notes define a “fundamental change” to include, among other things: (1) any person or group gaining control of our company; (2) our company merging with or into another company or disposing of substantially all of its assets; (3) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of our ordinary shares or the ADSs as a result of which these securities would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets; (4) the adoption of any plan relating to the dissolution or liquidation of our company; or (5) our ADSs ceasing to be listed on a major U.S. national securities exchange. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of these notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of US$1,000. In the event of a fundamental change, we may also be required to issue additional ADSs upon conversion of our convertible notes. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2013 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 20 Table of Contents Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, may be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and because we conduct the majority of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct the majority of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and several affiliated Chinese entities in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to bring an action in the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in United States courts judgments obtained in United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands or China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the shares underlying your ADSs. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the ordinary shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Under our deposit agreement, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given or any of the other situations specified under the deposit agreement takes place. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make these rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. 21 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Provisions of our shareholder rights plan could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In November 2007, we adopted a shareholder rights plan. Although the rights plan will not prevent a takeover, it is intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover by potentially significantly diluting an acquirer’s ownership interest in our outstanding capital stock. The existence of the rights plan may also discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our ADSs. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences for U.S. Holders. Based on the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, the value of our assets, and the composition of our assets and income, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2013 and, although no assurances can be made in this regard and assuming we use a substantial portion of the cash raised in our October 2013 convertible notes offering in our business in the early part of this year, we do not expect to be one for our taxable year ending December 31, 2014 or become one in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects and, in addition, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2014 or for any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. The value of our assets generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate considerably. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any offering. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder (as defined herein). For a more detailed discussion of United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 