ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones facing us. Furthermore, new risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and we cannot predict those events or how they may affect us. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability under generally accepted accounting principles on a consistent basis. We expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenue from the licensing of our learning, performance and talent development solutions, the recently introduced SumTotal 8 Series, and our predecessor solutions and related services, including without limitation, maintenance, professional services, on-demand subscriptions and hosting. Historically, we have not been profitable under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”) and we may not consistently achieve or sustain GAAP profitability. If we fail to generate adequate revenue from the SumTotal 8 Series, predecessor solutions and related services, we will continue to incur losses. In the future, we expect to continue to incur additional non-cash expenses relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets that will contribute to our net losses. In addition, charges related to stock-based compensation awards, including grants of stock options, are recorded as an expense in our reported results of operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which has the result of increasing our reported expenses and our GAAP losses. We expect to incur additional GAAP expenses related to stock based compensation awards for the foreseeable future and these future expenses will adversely impact our ability to achieve profitability on a GAAP basis. We are currently increasing our emphasis on subscription-based, on-demand offerings and accelerating this transition, which could slow our short term revenue growth and affect our revenue derived from perpetual license sales. While we continue to offer and support our software on a perpetual license model, we have increased, and are continuing to increase, our emphasis on a subscription revenue model by offering our solutions as on-demand subscriptions services, and are in the process of accelerating this transition. We anticipate that our future financial performance and revenue growth will depend upon the acceptance and growth of our on-demand solutions. Offering on-demand subscription solutions represents a significant departure from traditional software delivery strategies. The relatively short history and continued evolution of this business model makes our business operations and prospects difficult to evaluate. As we increase our focus on offering our solutions on-demand, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, a reduction in our traditional perpetual software license revenues and associated services revenues, which may not be offset by our on-demand revenues. Moreover, our short term financial results could be affected by upfront investments required to grow our on-demand offerings. Additionally, we recognize revenue for our on-demand solutions over the term of the agreement instead of in the quarter in which the agreement is signed, as is typically the case with our perpetual software licenses. As a result, the sale of our on-demand offerings will result in less revenue recognized in the quarter the agreement was signed as compared to a comparable sale of our perpetual software license and our operating results may not immediately reflect any increases or decreases in sales of our on-demand offerings. Accordingly, our short term financial results could be impacted if customers choose our on-demand solutions instead of our perpetual software offerings. Furthermore, continued revenue from these services requires our customers to renew such subscriptions. Unexpected customer cancelations or low renewal rates of subscriptions could adversely impact our financial results. 17 Table of Contents Current adverse economic conditions, including reduced information technology spending or increased unemployment, or a reduction in corporate confidence in the economy may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on the overall demand for learning, performance and talent development systems solutions, and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. The purchase of our solutions is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Furthermore, the market for our solutions and services may be disproportionately affected by a weakening or a decline in corporate confidence, in the economy in general or in the broader market for information technology. Moreover, if the unemployment rate increases materially and training and retention of employees becomes less critical, our existing and potential clients may no longer consider improvement of their learning, performance, and talent development systems a priority. As a result, if the current worldwide economic conditions continue, many of our customers may delay or reduce purchases of our solutions or not purchase such solutions at all, which could reduce demand for our solutions and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The current economic conditions and market instability and their impact on us and our customers also make it increasingly difficult for us to forecast accurately both future demand for our own solutions and overall demand in the markets in which we compete. In addition, any adverse financial or economic impact on our customers may impact their ability to pay timely, or result in their inability to pay, the amounts owed for work or services contractually agreed to or previously provided to the customer, which may result in a reduction in revenue, accounts receivables and allowance for sales returns and doubtful accounts. Even if economic conditions remain stable, weak economic conditions, reduced corporate confidence in the economy or a reduction in information technology spending would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices, or possible delays or cancelations of purchases, for our solutions and services, reduced sales and possible delays in payment of, or inability to pay, amounts owed to us. If this trend in economic conditions continues or deteriorates further, it could adversely affect our results in future periods. If we fail to successfully manage our product transition, adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, or deploy upgrades to our solutions successfully and on a timely basis, our business and financial results will be harmed. The learning, performance and talent development markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product and service introductions, short development cycles and evolving industry standards. The introduction of new solutions and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our solutions and services obsolete. Additionally, although our software solutions can be licensed for use with a variety of popular industry standard relational database management system platforms, specific operating systems, or other combinations of licensed software, there may be existing or future platforms or user interfaces that achieve popularity in the marketplace which may not be architecturally compatible with our software product design. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing landscape, to offer new solutions and services to address our customers’ changing demands and to develop and maintain consistent software product performance characteristics across different combinations of licensed software. We may also experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful design, development, introduction or marketing of our solutions and services, which may harm our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Since the formation of SumTotal Systems in 2004, we have introduced major product upgrades in December 2004, April 2005, June 2006, December 2006, June 2007 and June 2008. We face numerous risks relating to product transitions and introductions, including customers delaying their purchasing decision until they have confidence in our new product and until we have proven we can successfully install and implement new solutions or upgrades. Due to the product transition, we may be unable to forecast revenue from product sales and related services accurately, the number and severity of defects and increased support requirements due 18 Table of Contents to the complexity of the new product. In order to market and sell the product successfully, we must ensure broad-based cooperation from and coordination between multiple departments, including engineering and marketing, and from multiple geographic regions, including Bellevue, Washington; Mountain View, California; Gainesville, Florida; Hyderabad, India; and Datchet, United Kingdom. In addition, our implementations may be very complicated and require more time and resources than originally forecasted. As a result, we may not be able to complete the requisite work necessary in order to gain customer acceptance, which may delay or prevent us from recognizing revenue on deals we have signed. If we fail to manage the transition to new product and solution offerings successfully, our business and financial results may be adversely affected, which may cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Further, we have plans to discontinue supporting certain legacy solutions and encourage customers of these solutions to upgrade to a newer version of our software. However, if these customers chose not to upgrade or there are delays or complications in such upgrades causing a decrease in customer satisfaction with our solutions, our financial results may be harmed. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year and are difficult to predict, which could negatively affect the value of your investment. We have experienced substantial fluctuations in operating results on a quarterly and annual basis and expect these fluctuations to continue in the future. Our operating results may be affected by a number of other factors, including, but not limited to: • the speed and success with which we are able to transition offering our solutions as on-demand subscriptions; • the size and timing of product and solution orders and the timing and execution of professional services engagements; • the mix of revenue from solutions and services; • our ability to meet customer project milestones; • market acceptance of our solutions and services, especially the SumTotal 8 Series and predecessor solutions, related services and our on-demand subscriptions; • our ability to complete fixed-price professional services engagements within budget, on time and to our customers’ satisfaction; • the timing of revenue and expense recognition, including the recognition of a significant portion of revenue or expenses in a single quarter from large and/or long-term contracts; • industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers; • recognition of impairment of existing assets; • our ability to execute on our strategy and operating plans; and • general economic and business conditions of our industry and industries of our customers. Our limited operating history with performance management and compensation management solutions, and the rapidly evolving nature of our market make prediction of future revenue and expenses difficult. Expense levels are based, in part, on expectations as to future revenue and are essentially fixed in the short-term. To the extent our future revenue is difficult to predict, we may not be able to adjust spending in response to revenue shortfalls. Other expenses, as a result of changes in the law or otherwise, such as expenses related to litigation or compliance with government regulations, may also increase and cause us to fall short of our forecasts. Failure to meet our forecasts would likely cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents We have experienced and may continue to experience turnover of senior management and key personnel, which could harm our business or operations. Our success depends to a significant degree on the performance of the senior management team and other key employees, and there is no guarantee that such officers or key employees will remain employed with us. We do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any key employee, and we do not maintain key person life insurance. In October 2008, we announced that Donald E. Fowler, our Chief Executive Officer, would be retiring and that Arun Chandra would be starting as Chief Executive Officer in November 2008. In addition, in January 2009, we announced that Ray Villareal, our Senior Vice President, Field Operations, had left the Company. As a result of the departure of any of our key employees, there is a risk that we would be unable to effectively manage ourselves and successfully meet operational and other challenges, which could harm our business. If our senior management team, including any new hires, fails to work effectively together and execute our plans and strategies, our business could be harmed. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain highly skilled technical, sales and marketing and professional services personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the software industry, particularly engineering and other technical personnel, is intense and is increasing, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain highly skilled employees in sufficient numbers to sustain our current business or to support future growth. In addition, we announced a restructuring in the first quarter of 2009 which included the termination of employment of a number of our employees. While most terminated employees signed release agreements, there is no assurance that such employees or any other former employee will not sue us for wrongful termination or other employment related claims. Even if such suits are meritless, such suits may divert management resources and will be costly to defend. The results of such litigation, if any, may be difficult to predict, and a judgment or settlement may adversely affect our operating results, which may result in a lower stock price. Our sales cycles in our traditional perpetual license business line are lengthy, making the timing of sales difficult to predict and also requiring considerable resources and expense with no assurance that such sales will occur. For our traditional perpetual license business line, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and a customer’s purchase of our solutions and services is lengthy and often extends over several fiscal quarters or a fiscal year. To sell our solutions and services successfully, we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the use and benefits of our solutions and services, which typically requires significant time, capital and other resources. Also, as we offer both on-demand solutions and perpetual licenses, this might create customer confusion regarding our offerings, which may delay purchases of our perpetual licensed solutions and lengthen our sales cycle. The delay or failure to complete sales in a particular quarter could reduce our revenue for that quarter, as well as subsequent quarters over which revenue for the sale would likely be recognized. If the sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens in general or for one or more large orders, it would negatively affect the timing of a significant portion of our revenue, and our revenue growth would be harmed. Many of our potential customers for perpetual licenses are large organizations which generally take more time to make significant business decisions, and the formation and execution of even a relatively small number of large contracts with these large organizations may have a significant impact on our revenue. In addition, we must expend and allocate resources prior to completing a sales transaction, with no guarantee that such transaction will result in an actual sale. Furthermore, the lengthening of our sales cycles may create increased difficulties in negotiating such sales on terms favorable to us. This may result in a delay or failure to generate revenue from our sales efforts and may adversely affect our stock price. Undetected product and solution defects may require us to halt sales or shipments of our solutions, delay introduction of new solutions, or account for warranty claims. Our solutions are highly technical and complex and have contained and may contain undetected errors, bugs, security vulnerabilities or defects, some of which may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Our product and solution offerings, both current and future and including our recently introduced SumTotal 8 Series, are complex and often contain undetected errors or bugs, despite internal and 20 Table of Contents third-party testing. New product and solution offerings, such as the SumTotal 8 Series, contain new features and functionality which result in a greater likelihood of errors, bugs, security vulnerabilities and frequently these are undetected until the period immediately following introduction and initial shipment of new solutions or enhancements to existing solutions. For example in the SumTotal 7 Series, our predecessor product, although we attempted to discover and resolve all such defects in our product line that we believed would be considered serious by our customers before shipment to them, the SumTotal 7 Series was not error-free and some customers notified us that they considered some of the defects to be serious. In addition, our solutions include third-party software, and any defects in third-party software that we incorporate into our solutions may compromise our solutions. It may be difficult for us to determine the source of the problem and correct any errors in third-party software because such software is not within our control. Any bugs, errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our solutions after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our solutions made by our channel partners. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our solutions. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We rely on partnerships, alliances and other relationships to conduct our business, including internationally, and our business may be adversely affected if they do not perform as expected. Our business relies on a variety of partnerships, alliances and other relationships, such as those with content partners, resellers, original equipment manufacturers, solution integrators, human resource outsourcers and technology partners, to develop, market and sell our solutions, including in many foreign countries. We also use independent third parties to provide engineering services, including customer implementation and product development, including customer implementation and product development. As our business grows and evolves, through adding new solutions or possible third party or product acquisitions, we have relied, and in the future, we may rely more heavily, on these types of partnerships globally. As a result, we have had to, and may in the future, have to renegotiate or terminate existing relationships. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into new contracts, or amend or terminate our existing contracts on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, if we amend or terminate any of our contracts, our former partners may become our competitors in the future. These former partners may be unhappy with their new relationships, and may, as a result, commence litigation against us, regardless of the merits of such litigation. Litigation is expensive to defend, and even the threat of legal proceedings diverts resources, and management attention from operating our business and causes increases in our expense levels, all of which may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, our success in international markets will depend to a large degree on the success of these independent partners, with whom we have a limited working experience and over whom we have little control. If they are unwilling or unable to dedicate sufficient resources to our relationships, our international operations will suffer so our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train and motivate new distributors, resellers, alliance partners and systems integrators and expand our relationships with current independent partners. Our lack of product diversification, and our reliance on the SumTotal 8 Series and its predecessor solutions, means that any decline in price or demand for our solutions and services would seriously harm our business. We expect the SumTotal 8 Series and predecessor solutions and related services to continue to account for a significant majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a decline in the price of, or demand for, the SumTotal 8 Series and predecessor solutions or services, or their failure to achieve broad market acceptance, would seriously harm our business and would likely result in a decline in the price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents The anticipated benefits of our entry into the Performance Management industry may be delayed or may not be realized as we integrate solutions and employees and adapt to a new market with different competitors. We expect to continue to enhance our position in the performance management industry through the further integration of our performance and compensation management technologies, solutions, services, partnerships, and customer contacts into our current product and solution offerings. Nevertheless, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits associated with our entry into the performance management market in a timely manner or at all. Additionally, we had limited experience competing in this space and now face new and different competitors with more experience selling and delivering such software and services. If we are unable to generate greater growth and acceptance of our performance management offering, our business and financial results may be harmed. Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that we are infringing their intellectual property which could diminish the value of our solutions and services or deter customers from purchasing our solutions regardless of whether these claims are successful. From time-to-time, we are involved in legal proceedings or threats of legal proceedings. Litigation is expensive to defend and even the threat of legal proceedings, regardless of their merit, diverts management attention from operating our business and causes increases in our expense levels. We have received, and may in the future receive, threatening letters and notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. In addition, there are patent-holding companies, entities that do not make or sell solutions, which may threaten or bring claims against us alleging that our solutions infringe upon their proprietary rights. Such claims could result in costly litigation and could divert management and technical resources. They could also delay product shipment, deter potential customers from purchasing our solutions and services, or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which agreements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. In the event of an adverse judgment against us (including a judgment or settlement which may impose adverse conditions on us), we may be required to cease shipping, to pay damages, to license technology on terms that may not be favorable to us or to alter our technology, website or software solutions, any of which may adversely affect our operating results and cause us to miss our forecasts or industry analysts’ forecasts, thereby causing a possible decline in the price of our common stock. If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive harm. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trade secret and trademark laws, contractual restrictions, restrictions on disclosure and other methods to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, our “Drag and Drop” patent is part of our performance management offering and, as a result, patent protection may become a more important component of the methods we use to protect our proprietary technology. These legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. Furthermore, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. It may also be possible for third parties to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property or trade secrets without our authorization and it may be possible for third parties to independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. We cannot assure that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our solutions and services or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. Consequently the value of our solutions and services to our customers could diminish substantially. Our solutions include third-party technology, the loss of which could materially harm our business. We use licensed third-party technology components in our solutions. Future licenses to this technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of or inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could result in delays in the introduction of new solutions or could force us to discontinue offering portions of our learning, performance, and talent development solutions until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. 22 Table of Contents Any future acquisitions we make, or attempt to make, will need to be integrated into our business and require significant time and effort from our management team, which may disrupt our business and harm our operating results or financial condition. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of businesses and technologies to enhance our existing business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations and key employees, technologies or solutions, unanticipated costs, diversion of management’s attention from our core business, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. The integration of businesses that we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future into our business has been and will continue to be a complex, time consuming and expensive process. Failure to operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices could adversely impact the success of any business combination as evidenced in previous combination and acquisition transactions. Our operating results may suffer because of acquisition-related expenses, amortization of intangible assets and impairment of intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions, or to provide for additional working capital requirements, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will be able consummate or expand future business combinations, if any, on favorable terms or on a timely basis, or that we will be able to integrate successfully businesses, solutions, technologies or personnel that we might acquire. Failure to do so may negatively affect our financial results, customer, employee and investor confidence, and ultimately, the price of our common stock. Further, we might be required to invest significant additional resources in order to expand these relationships, and the cost of this investment may exceed the revenue generated from this investment. Security and privacy breaches could subject us to litigation and liability. We host certain of our customers’ learning, performance, and talent development software implementations and provide access to that software using the Internet, and also use the Internet to deliver our on-demand subscription services to our customers. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our customers which could disrupt the operation of our hosting systems or make them inaccessible to users. We also depend on third parties to provide key components of our networks and systems and Internet service providers and telecommunications companies and the efficient operation of their computer networks and other computer equipment to enable customers to access and use hosted software implementations. We could become subject to litigation and liability if third parties penetrate security for our hosting systems or otherwise misappropriate our users’ confidential information or personal data, or if customers are unable to access and use hosted software implementations. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other technological events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or personal data, or could cause interruptions in our services or operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or service interruptions or to alleviate problems caused by breaches or service interruptions. Each of our key third-party networks and systems component providers, Internet service providers and telecommunications companies partners have experienced significant outages in the past and could, in the future, experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems, which could require us to pay service level credits to our customers or cause our customers to believe we were at fault and withhold payments due to us or sue us for breach of contract, which would result in decreased revenue and a possible decline in the price of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our disaster recovery plan might be insufficient if a major interruption occurs, and a disaster could severely damage our operations. Our disaster recovery plan only covers redundant back-up computer systems and data at an alternate site for our primary business applications systems hosted in our Mountain View headquarters. A disaster could severely harm our business because our computer systems could be interrupted for an indeterminate length of time. Our operations, including software solutions we host for some of our customers, depend on our ability to maintain and protect the computer systems needed for our day-to-day operations. For instance, a number of these computer systems are located in Mountain View, California on or near known earthquake fault zones and flood plains, or in Hyderabad, India where the infrastructure is not as robust as in the United States. Although these systems are designed to be fault tolerant, they are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and other events. Any damage to our facility could lead to interruptions in the services we provide to our customers and loss of customer information, and could impair our ability to operate our business, leading us to pay service level credits or customers to withhold payments due to us and decreased revenue. The business interruption insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions, which would result in increased expenses and a possible decline in the price of our common stock. The learning, performance and talent development systems market is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully. The market for our solutions and services is intensely competitive, dynamic and subject to rapid technology change. Our competitors vary in size, scope and the breadth of solutions and services offered. We face competition from: • other developers of learning, performance and talent development systems; • providers of other learning, performance and talent development systems solutions; • vendors of other enterprise software applications that are beginning to offer solutions with learning, performance and talent development functionality; • large professional consulting firms and in-house information technology departments; and • developers of web authoring tools. Additionally, companies may choose to develop their own learning, performance, and talent development software internally rather than acquiring it from third parties. There are relatively low barriers to entry in the learning, performance and talent development systems market, and we expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. Additionally, some of our existing and potential competitors, such as Oracle Corporation and SAP AG, have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. These companies not only have more resources to develop their own solutions and technologies internally but can also use such resources to acquire competing solutions and technologies through acquisitions or other strategic transactions and quickly enter the learning, performance and talent development market and compete with us on both solutions offerings and pricing. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would seriously harm our business and financial results. Our core offering, the SumTotal 8 Series and predecessor solutions, integrates solutions addressing the learning management, performance management and compensation management segments of our market; however, our performance management solution was acquired in our acquisition of MindSolve and has only recently been integrated into our offering. Additionally, we had limited experience competing in the performance management space prior to our acquisition of MindSolve and now face new and different competitors with more experience selling and delivering performance management software and services. Furthermore, our compensation 24 Table of Contents management offering is not as fully developed and does not have the same market acceptance as the other modules of the SumTotal 8 Series and predecessor solutions. As a result, we may have difficulty competing against companies which focus on these segments rather than the entire learning, performance, and talent development market, or selling to customers who only need solutions in a specific segment. The learning, performance and talent development systems software markets may not grow to a sufficient size or at a sufficient rate to sustain our business. Corporate training and education historically have been conducted primarily through classroom instruction and performance management solutions have traditionally been done using paper-based systems, desktop applications, spreadsheets, classroom settings, and human resource management systems. Although technology-based training applications have been available for many years, they currently account for only a small portion of the overall corporate learning market. Accordingly, our success depends on the extent to which companies implement learning, performance and talent development software solutions for the design, development, delivery and management of their corporate learning needs and performance management solutions for rating, reviewing, evaluating, developing and compensating individuals. Many companies that have already invested substantial resources in traditional training methods may be reluctant to adopt a new strategy that may limit or compete with their existing investments. Even if companies implement learning, performance and talent development software solutions or performance management solutions, they may still choose to develop such solutions internally. If the use of learning, performance and talent development software does not become widespread, or if companies choose to develop such software or solutions internally rather than acquiring them from third parties, then our learning, performance and talent development software and solutions will not be commercially successful. Our operating results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. We, as well as our customers and our partners, are increasingly doing business outside of the United States. Accordingly, our business is subject to a number of risks inherent in international operations, including: • difficulties and costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel in our offices outside of the United States; • difficulties managing a geographically dispersed workforce and sales organization with different learning styles and cultures; • export controls, import tariffs and other barriers to trade; • changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including tax laws; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • political and economic instability; • reliability of infrastructure; • potential difficulties in collecting accounts in foreign countries; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While we sell our solutions worldwide and we have experienced international partners, we have limited experience with sales and marketing in some countries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our solutions in all of our targeted international markets. If our international efforts are not successful, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 25 Table of Contents Due to our significant operations in India, which has a rapidly growing technology market, our business is subject to certain risks that are not typically experienced to the same degree in the United States or elsewhere abroad. We rely significantly on our research and development, professional services and technical support operations in Hyderabad, India to enable us to develop new solutions, complete customer implementation projects and new releases of our solutions on time and within established budgets and provide technical support. In recent years, increased growth and development of the technology market in general, and in Hyderabad specifically, has made it more difficult for us to hire and retain qualified technical employees and other personnel. In addition, it may be difficult to acquire additional space to support future growth. Our efforts in Hyderabad are subject to a number of risks inherent in international operations. However, certain risks are particularly acute in India, such as: • employee turnover; • increasing salaries; • increasing tax rates; • increased expenses due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • less reliable infrastructure. If our India operations fail, for any reason, to provide adequate and timely product enhancements, updates and fixes to us or customer implementations, our ability to fix defects in our SumTotal 8 Series, our ability to develop new versions of our SumTotal 8 Series and successor solutions, and our ability to respond to customer or competitive demands would be harmed and we would lose sales opportunities and customers and might negatively impact our customer satisfaction. In addition, our engineering efforts are based primarily out of three offices: Bellevue, Washington; Gainesville, Florida and Hyderabad, India. If the offices fail to work together successfully, we may experience delays in fixing defects in our solutions, customer implementations, or in developing and releasing future versions of our product. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Our stock price is subject to continued fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in conditions or trends in the learning, performance, and talent development market; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins, technological innovations, new solutions or services, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • our growing emphasis on selling subscription-based, on-demand solutions; • fluctuations in demand for our solutions, including due to seasonality; • additions or departures of key personnel; • foreign currency, interest rate, and fixed income risks; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. 26 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the price and trading volume of our common stock may prevent stockholders from selling their shares above the price at which they purchased their shares. In addition, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation, and we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation, like other litigation against us could result in substantial costs, negative publicity and divert our management’s attention, which could seriously harm our business and stock price. We may need additional financing in the future, which we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms or at all. If our business does not generate the cash needed to finance our operations or growth, including potential business acquisitions, we may need to obtain additional financing or take steps to restrict our operations in order to conserve existing cash. In addition, poor financial results or unanticipated expenses could give rise to additional financing requirements. We may be unable to obtain financing on terms favorable to us or at all. If we need to obtain financing and adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be required to make further expense reductions, which could significantly restrict our operations and limit our ability to enhance our solutions, fund expansion, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of business opportunities, thereby resulting in a decrease in our revenue and stock price. Our internal controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or detect misstatements or errors. A control system, no matter how well conceived or operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Our management does not expect that our internal controls and procedures will prevent all errors and all fraud, if any, because, in addition to resource constraints, there are inherent limitations of all control systems, including the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls and procedures can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of a control or procedure. The design of any system of controls and procedures is also based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In such event, we may not be able to recognize revenue we expected to recognize; we may not be able to meet our forecasts or industry analysts’ projections; or we may be the subject of litigation, each of which would likely harm our financial results and may result in a decline in the price of our common stock. The insolvency or failure of any of the financial institutions which holds our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which collectively totaled $47.8 million as of December 31, 2008, are deposited with several financial institutions, and may, at times, exceed federally insured limits. If any of such financial institutions were to become insolvent or unable to satisfy its obligations to us, such insolvency or failure could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Standards for compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 are burdensome and uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404, our management is required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, at least annually. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are new, complex and subject to proposed changes. Currently, the rules require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation of our internal controls over financial reporting. The 27 Table of Contents process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting will likely continue to result in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management and other internal resources. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to retain a favorable assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting during fiscal 2009. If we are unable to remediate effectively any future material weaknesses identified by us or our independent registered public accounting firm, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, and we may not be able to timely file, or file at all, our periodic financial reports. Even if we are able to file such reports, there may be a loss of stockholder confidence, leading to an adverse effect on the price of our stock. Future changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our expenses. Past changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Market, have increased our expenses as we devote resources to respond to the requirements. Although recent changes to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are intended to reduce the costs of compliance, compliance is costly due to the necessity of hiring additional personnel and external consultants and our independent registered public accounting firm. The securities laws and regulations may also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. Further, our directors and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could adversely affect our business. We have incurred, and may incur impairment charges which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded a non-cash, after-tax charge of $68.5 million for impairment of goodwill in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, primarily caused by the effects of adverse market conditions that caused a decrease in our stock price and market capitalization, which approximates the fair value of the Company at December 31, 2008. This charge represented the entire balance of our goodwill. As a part of our annual goodwill impairment testing in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, SumTotal Systems also evaluated possible impairment of our other intangible assets in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, based on the future discounted cash flows projections of each intangible asset. There was no impairment of our other intangible assets on the balance sheet at December 31, 2008. Intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives using straight-line and accelerated methods designed to match the amortization to the benefits received where applicable. They are reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized in the amount by which the carrying amount of the unit exceeds its fair value. Purchased intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset group to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds the fair value of the asset group. Any significant adverse changes to the key assumptions about acquired businesses and their prospects or an adverse change in market conditions could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge. Given the significance of the intangible assets, which had a carrying value of $7.1 million on December 31, 2008, as a percentage of our total asset balance, an adverse change to the estimated fair value of intangible assets could result in an impairment charge that would be material to our reported assets and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition and income taxes, could cause us to recognize lower revenue or to report lower earnings per share. While we believe that we are in compliance with the accounting rules and guidance provided by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”), the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) and the SEC, these bodies continue to issue implementation guidelines for their standards and the accounting profession continues to discuss a wide range of potential interpretations of such rules and guidance. Additional implementation guidelines, and changes in interpretations of such guidelines, including the possible adoption of international financial reporting standards, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue and accounting practices that could cause us to recognize lower revenue or increased expenses. In addition, policies, guidelines and interpretations related to accounting for acquisitions, income taxes, foreign taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts and other financial reporting matters require different judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. If our determination of these matters is subsequently changed or updated, such changes or updates could result in an adverse impact on our financial statements. Adverse litigation, disputes or investigations could affect our business. We may, from time to time, be subject to various legal or government claims, disputes or investigations. Such matters may include, but not be limited to, claims, disputes or investigations related to warranty, refund, breach of contract, employment, intellectual property, government regulation or compliance or other matters such as the subpoena we received on April 30, 2008 from the U.S. Department of Defense, as described in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. These matters can be lengthy, expensive, and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Even if such matters do not result in litigation or such matters are resolved in our favor, such matters and the time and resources necessary to resolve or litigate them, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, our reputation, or the market value of our common stock. We may be limited in our use of net operating losses carry forwards. Our ability to benefit from our deferred tax assets depends on us having sufficient future earnings to utilize our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards before they expire. We have established a valuation allowance against the future tax benefit for our federal and state NOL carryforwards. We could be required to record an additional valuation allowance against our foreign deferred tax assets if market conditions change materially and, as a result, our future earnings are, or are projected to be, significantly less than we currently estimate. Our ability to utilize net operating losses and credits may be subject to a substantial limitation due to the change in ownership, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code Section 382 and similar state provisions and changes to federal and state law with respect to the use of NOLs. Our NOL carryforwards are subject to review and potential disallowance upon audit by the tax authorities of the jurisdictions where the NOLs were incurred. We may become subject to government regulation and legal uncertainties that could result in liability or increase the cost of doing business, thereby adversely affecting our financial result. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally, such as export control laws. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may become applicable to us or may be adopted in the future with respect to the Internet covering issues such as taxation, user privacy, content, right to access personal data, copyrights, distribution and characteristics and quality of services. The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as taxation, property ownership, copyrights, and other intellectual property issues, encryption, libel, export or import matters and personal privacy to the Internet 29 Table of Contents is uncertain. The vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the broad commercial use of the Internet and related technologies. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes to these laws, including some recently proposed changes, could create uncertainty in the Internet marketplace. Such uncertainty could reduce demand for our services or increase the cost of doing business due to increased costs of litigation or increased service delivery costs. In addition, we could be liable for the misuse or unauthorized disclosure of personal data. The Federal Trade Commission, the European Union and certain state and local authorities have been investigating certain Internet companies regarding their use of personal information. Further, the European Union has adopted various data protection regulations related to the confidentiality of personal data. While we are certified under the European Union Safe Harbor which regulates the collection, disclosure and use of personal data, failure to comply with these various regulations could subject us to fines, and cause customers to lose confidence in our software solutions and related services, thereby negatively affecting our revenue and expense. Terrorism and United States military actions may adversely affect our business. As a result of terrorist activity, political and military instability, and existing and possible United States military actions, significant instability and uncertainty in the world may continue to have a material adverse effect on world financial markets, including financial markets in the United States. In addition, such adverse political effects may have an adverse impact on economic conditions in the United States. Unfavorable economic conditions in the United States may have an adverse effect on our business operations including, but not limited to, our ability to expand the market for our solutions, obtain financing as needed, enter into strategic relationships and compete effectively in the learning, performance, and talent development markets. Such consequences may lead to a decrease in demand for our solutions and services and as a result our stock price may suffer. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could make the sale of the company more difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, no potential acquirer would be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors. A potential acquirer would also not be able to act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms that make it difficult to remove all directors at once. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to remove directors at an annual meeting. The acquirer would not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which would require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on our board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Subject to its fiduciary duties, our board of directors may in the future adopt a stockholder rights plan. If the board adopts a stockholder rights plan, it may discourage a merger or tender offer involving our securities that is not approved by our board of directors by increasing the cost of effecting any such transaction and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to vote in favor of such merger or participate in such tender offer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 