ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investments in our common stock involve risks. Investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and the other information in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in our shares of common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Factors Relating to the Merger with NTL and its Implementation The combined company may be unable to successfully integrate operations and realize the full anticipated synergies of the merger, which may harm the value of its common stock. The merger with NTL will involve the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the companies' operations include: •the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations and facilities; •combining the two companies' product offerings and coordinating the branding and pricing of these offerings; •rationalizing each company's internal systems and processes, including billing systems, which are different from each other; and •integrating personnel from different company cultures. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies' operations could result in the disruption of the combined company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in the standards, controls, product offerings, level of customer service, procedures and policies of the two companies that could negatively affect the 30 combined company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom it has business dealings. Among the factors considered by the Telewest board of directors in connection with its approval of the merger agreement were the opportunities that could result from the merger for realizing synergies by creating efficiencies in operations, capital expenditures and other areas. These savings may not be realized within the time periods contemplated or at all. If the combined company is not able to successfully achieve these savings, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The combined company will incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the merger. We expect that the combined company will incur a number of non-recurring transaction fees and other costs associated with completing the merger, combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial. We are in the process of collecting information in order to formulate integration plans to deliver the planned synergies. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with NTL. Although the management of the combined company expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of our two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Certain current stockholders of NTL and Telewest could have an influence over the business and affairs of the combined company after the merger. Certain persons or entities are significant stockholders of NTL and Telewest, and will be significant stockholders of the combined company. Based on SEC filings to date, Ameriprise Financial Inc., or Ameriprise Financial, beneficially owned approximately 11.4%, FMR Corp. beneficially owned approximately 7.2%, Franklin Mutual Advisers beneficially owned approximately 8.1%, and William R. Huff beneficially owned approximately 8.6% of NTL's common stock, and FMR Corp. beneficially owned approximately 4.7%, Franklin Mutual Advisers beneficially owned approximately 7.9%, and Mr. Huff beneficially owned approximately 12.2% of Telewest's common stock. Persons affiliated with Huff Asset Management currently serve on the boards of directors of both NTL and Telewest (Messrs. Huff and Edwin M. Banks, in the case of NTL, and Messrs. William J. Connors and Michael J. McGuiness, in the case of Telewest). Assuming that none of FMR Corp., Ameriprise Financial, Mr. Huff and Franklin Mutual Advisors has sold any of its or his holdings subsequent to February 23, 2006, and giving effect to the reclassification of Telewest common stock and to the exchange ratio under the merger agreement with respect to their holdings of Telewest and NTL common stock as of such date, FMR Corp. would beneficially own approximately 5.7%, Ameriprise Financial would beneficially own approximately 7.4%, Mr. Huff would beneficially own approximately 8.2%, and Franklin Mutual Advisers would beneficially own approximately 7.0% of the common stock of the combined company outstanding immediately after the merger on a fully diluted basis, based on currently outstanding NTL and Telewest shares, options and warrants, and each of them could have an influence over the business and affairs of the combined company. It is also anticipated that Messrs. Huff, Banks and Connors will serve as directors of the combined company following the merger. As a result of their relationship with Huff Asset Management, if conflicts between the interests of Huff Asset Management and the interests of the combined company's other stockholders should arise, these directors may not be disinterested. 31 Whether or not the merger is completed, the announcement and pendency of the transaction could cause disruptions in Telewest's business, which could have an adverse effect on its business and financial results. Whether or not the merger with NTL is completed, the announcement and pendency of the transaction could cause disruptions in our business. Specifically: •current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain key managers and other employees; •current and prospective customers may experience variations in levels of service as the companies prepare for integration and may choose to discontinue their service with us as a result; and •the attention of management may be diverted from the operation of the business toward the completion of the transaction. The merger could affect the combined company's relationship with BBC Worldwide. We currently have a 50% ownership interest in the UKTV Group, a series of joint ventures with BBC Worldwide. The UKTV Group supplies television programming to us, NTL and other third parties. The joint venture agreements include change of control provisions that, if triggered, would permit BBC Worldwide to acquire our interest in the joint ventures at "fair value" as defined in those agreements. In addition, the joint venture agreements require BBC Worldwide and us to agree on significant operating and strategic matters for the joint ventures on an ongoing basis. We, as well as NTL, believe that one of the consequences of the change in the merger structure is that no person or persons acting in concert will acquire a majority of our shares and, as a result, there will be no change in control of Telewest within the meaning of the joint venture agreements. BBC Worldwide has previously asserted to NTL and us that the merger as originally structured constituted a change of control under the joint venture agreements and has made certain other claims. BBC Worldwide could attempt to continue to assert these claims or other claims under the joint venture agreements in connection with the merger as restructured. We and NTL believe there is no basis for any claim that a change in control will occur under the joint venture agreements as a result of the merger. Any disagreement between BBC Worldwide and us, whether about the application of the change in control provisions or any other terms of the joint venture agreements, could affect our relationship with BBC Worldwide, the performance of the UKTV Group, and the business of the combined company following completion of the merger. In certain circumstances, the merger agreement requires payment of a termination fee of $175 million or $215 million by Telewest to NTL and, under certain circumstances, Telewest must allow NTL 20 business days to match any alternative acquisition proposal prior to the termination of the merger agreement. These terms could affect the decisions of a third party proposing an alternative transaction to the merger. Under the terms of the merger agreement, we may be required to pay to NTL a termination fee of $175 million or $215 million, depending on the circumstances, if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. Should the merger agreement be terminated in circumstances under which such a termination fee is payable, the payment of this fee could have material and adverse consequences for our financial condition and operations after such time. Additionally, under the terms of the merger agreement, in the event of a superior acquisition proposal being made to us by another party, we must allow NTL a 20 business day period to make a revised proposal in response to the superior acquisition proposal, prior to which we may not terminate the merger agreement. These terms could affect the structure, pricing and terms proposed by other parties seeking to acquire or merge with us, and could make it more difficult for another party to make a superior acquisition proposal for us. 32 If the conditions under the commitment letter are not satisfied, the financing to be provided thereunder will not be available to satisfy the cash portion of the consideration to be paid to Telewest stockholders in the merger. NTL has obtained commitments for a total of £5.1 billion in financing to effect the merger with us and pay the related fees, costs and expenses in connection therewith, to repay in full the existing senior credit facilities of NTL, to repay in full our existing senior and second lien credit facilities and to finance the ongoing working capital needs and general corporate requirements of the combined company and its subsidiaries after the merger. Although the completion of the merger is not conditioned upon the receipt of these funds, the commitment letter contains conditions in addition to those contained in the merger agreement that must be satisfied before the lenders are committed to make the financing available. These conditions include there being no insolvency of NTL or its subsidiary, NTL Investment Holdings Limited, or of our subsidiaries TCN and Neptune Bridge Borrower LLC, and the negotiation of customary financing documentation on terms satisfactory to the lenders and no material waivers or amendments under the merger agreement. If any of these conditions is not met, the financing will not be available, which may prevent or materially delay the merger. The pendency of the merger without the consummation of the merger may have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Factors Relating to the Business of the Company and its Regulation Neither we, nor the combined company, may be able to fund our debt service obligations through operating cash flow in the future. It is possible that neither we, nor the combined company, may achieve or sustain sufficient cash flow in the future for the payment of interest. If our operating cash flow is not sufficient to meet our debt payment obligations, we may be forced to raise cash or reduce expenses by doing one or more of the following: •increasing, to the extent permitted, the amount of borrowings under our bank facilities; •restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness prior to maturity, and/or on unfavorable terms; •selling or disposing of some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; •revising or delaying the implementation of our strategic plans; or •foregoing business opportunities, including the introduction of new products and services, acquisitions and joint ventures. We could also be forced to seek additional equity capital, which could dilute the interests of the holders of our common stock. We cannot be sure that any, or a combination of, the above actions would be sufficient to fund our debt service obligations. Our current leverage is substantial, and, following the completion of the merger, the leverage of the combined company will be substantial, which may have an adverse effect on our available cash flow, our ability to obtain additional financing if necessary in the future, our flexibility in reacting to competitive and technological changes and our operations. Assuming the merger with NTL closed on September 30, 2005, the combined company would have a pro forma combined net debt of £3.2 billion. Net debt upon completing the transaction, after refinancing of the existing senior facilities of both companies and the additional borrowing to finance part of the transaction, is expected to be approximately £5.7 billion. 33 This high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: •a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations will have to be dedicated to the payment of interest on existing indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; •the ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; •our flexibility in reacting to competitive technological and other changes may be limited; •the substantial degree of leverage could make the combined company more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or adverse developments in the combined company's business; and •the combined company may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations. We have incurred losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We completed our financial restructuring on July 15, 2004. Although, as a result of the application of fresh start accounting, our predecessor and we, on a combined basis, did not have losses from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2004, our predecessor had losses from continuing operations of £183 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, £2,789 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 (including fixed asset and goodwill impairment charges and writedown of investment in affiliates of £2,416 million) and £1,741 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 (including a goodwill impairment charge and writedown of investment in affiliates of £968 million). We cannot be certain that we (or, following the merger with NTL, the combined company) will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Failure to achieve profitability could diminish our ability to sustain operations, meet financial covenants, pay dividends on our common stock, obtain additional required funds and make required payments on present or future indebtedness. The restrictive covenants under our indebtedness, as well as that of the combined company after the merger, may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements that govern our indebtedness, as well as that of the combined company following the merger, contain restrictive covenants that limit the discretion of management over various business matters. For example, these covenants restrict the ability to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make other distributions, or redeem or repurchase equity interests or subordinated obligations; •make investments; •sell assets, including the capital stock of subsidiaries; •enter into sale/leaseback transactions; •create liens; •enter into agreements that restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, transfer assets or make intercompany loans; •merge or consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and •enter into transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could materially adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. We may also 34 incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those that will be applicable under our current indebtedness or the indebtedness incurred in connection with the merger with NTL. We are a holding company dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We and a number of our subsidiaries are, and following the completion of the merger, the combined company will be holding companies with no independent operations or significant assets other than investments in our subsidiaries. Each of these holding companies depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. The terms of the combined company's credit facilities and other debt securities limit the payment of dividends, loan repayments and other distributions to or from these companies under many circumstances. Various agreements governing the debt that may be issued by the combined company's subsidiaries from time to time may restrict and, in some cases, may also prohibit the ability of these subsidiaries to move cash within their restricted group. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to further taxation. Applicable law may also limit the amounts that some of our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay as dividends or distributions on their equity interests, or even prevent such payments. The inability to transfer cash among entities within their respective consolidated groups may mean that even though they may have sufficient resources to meet their obligations, they may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from one entity in their restricted group to another entity in their restricted group in order to make payments to the entity owing the obligations. We are, and the combined company will be, subject to currency and interest rate risks. We are subject to currency exchange rate risks, because substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are paid in U.K. pounds sterling, but we pay interest and principal obligations with respect to a portion of our indebtedness in U.S. dollars and euros. To the extent that the pound declines in value against the U.S. dollar and the euro, the effective cost of servicing our U.S.-dollar and euro-denominated debt will be higher. Changes in the exchange rates result in foreign currency gains or losses. As of December 31, 2005, £87 million, or 5% of our long-term debt, was denominated in U.S. dollars and £69 million, or 4% of our long-term debt, was denominated in euros. We are also subject to interest rate risk because we have substantial indebtedness at variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, interest is determined on a variable basis on £1,791 million, or 95%, of our long-term debt. An increase in interest rates of 1% would increase our interest expense by approximately £7 million per year. To manage these foreign exchange and interest rate risks, we and NTL have each entered into a number of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward rate contracts. The combined company will be required by its lenders under the new senior credit facility to continue these programs post-completion of the merger. Specifically, the combined company will be required within six months of the closing date to fix the interest rate (whether through debt that is fixed rate, or through hedging) on not less than 662/3% of the total debt represented by its senior facilities and high yield notes, for a period of not less than three years from the closing date. Exchange rate hedging to sterling for a period of not less than three years will be required for 100% of all amounts, both principal and interest, denominated in euro or U.S. dollars advanced under the new senior credit facility. Exchange rate hedging to sterling will be required for 100% of coupon payments issued pursuant to the planned notes offering, and NTL's existing high-yield debt, to the first call date for each such issue. 35 On a pro forma basis after taking into account the impact of current hedging arrangements, as of September 30, 2005, the combined company's interest would have had interest determined on a variable basis on £951 million, or 16%, of its long term debt. An increase in interest rates of 1% would increase the combined company's pro forma interest expense by approximately £10 million per year. We cannot assure you that our hedging program, or that of the combined company following completion of the merger with Telewest, will be successful. Unhedged movements in currency exchange rates or interest rates in particular could have a material adverse effect on us or the combined company. Provisions of our debt agreements, our stockholder rights plan, our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and our contracts, as well as those of the combined company following the completion of the merger, could prevent or delay a change of control. We, and, upon completion of the merger with NTL, the combined company, may, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repay our outstanding indebtedness. The combined company or any possible acquiror may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes or repay that indebtedness in those circumstances. If the combined company or any possible acquiror cannot repay our outstanding indebtedness in the event of a change of control of the combined company (if such repayment is required), the failure to do so would constitute an event of default under the agreements under which that indebtedness was incurred and could result in a cross-default under other indebtedness that does not have similar provisions. The threat of this could have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of the combined company, including transactions in which the combined company's stockholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices, or otherwise which they may deem to be in their best interests. Our stockholder rights plan, some provisions of our second restated certificate of incorporation and our ability to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to third parties without stockholder approval may have the effect, alone or in combination with each other, of preventing or making more difficult transactions involving a change of control of the combined company. In connection with the merger, our rights plan, which will become the rights plan of the combined company on consummation of the merger, will be amended, among other things, to reduce the trigger under the plan from 25% to 15%, to eliminate the permitted offer exception (that permits a majority of non-management directors who are unaffiliated and not otherwise associated with a potential acquiror to exempt a transaction from our rights plan), to remove the ability of a majority of our board of directors to deem a beneficial owner or group of owners of 10% or more of our common stock to be an adverse person under our rights plan, and to ensure that the purchase price of a share of the preferred stock issued pursuant to our rights plan will not be adjusted as a result of the merger or the reclassification. The combined company will be subject to the Delaware business combinations law that, subject to limited exceptions, prohibits some Delaware corporations from engaging in some business combinations or other transactions with any stockholder who owns 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired that interest. The terms of certain existing agreements of the combined company relating to changes of control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of the combined company. The combined company may engage in a transaction with Virgin Mobile that could have a significant impact on the combined company. On December 5, 2005, NTL confirmed that it had approached Virgin Mobile about a potential offer to acquire Virgin Mobile, and that it had engaged in discussions with Virgin Enterprises Limited 36 to extend NTL's existing exclusive license for use of the Virgin name in the internet services area also to cover television and fixed and mobile telephone services. On January 16, 2006, NTL and the independent directors of Virgin Mobile confirmed that they were in discussions to enable a cash offer, with share alternative offers, to be made by NTL or one or more of its subsidiaries to acquire 100% of the shares of Virgin Mobile, subject to the satisfaction of certain pre-conditions. It is not clear whether an acquisition transaction between the combined company and Virgin Mobile will occur and, if so, on what terms. It is also unclear whether NTL or the combined company will enter into a license with Virgin Enterprises Limited to use the Virgin name (though it is unlikely that a Virgin Mobile transaction would occur without NTL or the combined company entering into such a license). If an acquisition transaction were to occur, it could involve the issuance of a substantial equity interest in NTL or the combined company and substantial cash payments to Virgin Mobile's shareholders. For example, under the terms of the potential offer announced on January 16, 2006, the shareholders of Virgin Mobile would be entitled to receive equity securities representing approximately 15.4% of the voting stock of the combined company on a fully-diluted basis, assuming all Virgin Mobile shareholders opted for stock. Moreover, the Virgin Group would hold over 10% of the voting stock of the combined company. If the license transaction were to occur, it would involve payment of a cash royalty for use of the Virgin name. The acquisition of Virgin Mobile would, if consummated, carry various risks for the combined company, including the following: •Depending on market perception of the terms, conditions and potential risks and benefits of the transaction, the transaction could adversely affect the trading price of the combined company's common stock. •The combined company would incur significant transaction-related costs in connection with the transaction. •The announcement and pendency of the transaction could cause disruptions in our business and those of NTL and Virgin Mobile, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. •Obtaining court and regulatory approvals and other governmental or third party consents, including the consent of T-Mobile, the network provider used by Virgin Mobile to carry Virgin Mobile wireless calls, could delay or prevent the closing of a transaction with Virgin Mobile, reduce the anticipated benefits of that transaction to stockholders or result in additional transaction or operating costs for the combined company. •The indebtedness of the combined company will increase beyond current levels, because some or all of the cash consideration required could be borrowed. This could have an adverse effect on the combined company's available cash flow, its ability to obtain additional financing if necessary in the future or the cost of such financing, its flexibility in reacting to competitive and technological changes and its operations. •The combined company might not be able to fund its increased debt service obligations through operating cash flow in the future. •The combined company could be unable to realize the full anticipated synergies of the transaction, which may harm the value of the combined company's common stock. •It is anticipated that, if the transaction should occur, the Virgin Group would hold significant voting power in the combined company with interests that could differ from those of stockholders generally. 37 •The Virgin Mobile business is subject to risks (e.g., competition and technological change in the mobile telephony sector, dependence on its network provider) to which the business of the combined company would not otherwise be subject. A license to use the Virgin name would also carry various risks, including the following: •The combined company would be substantially reliant on the general goodwill in the Virgin name. Consequently, adverse publicity in relation to the Virgin Group or its principals, particularly Sir Richard Branson, or in relation to another Virgin name licensee could have a material adverse effect on the combined company's business. •It is contemplated that, in connection with the license, Virgin Enterprise Limited would have the right to designate a member of the board of directors of the combined company. •It is anticipated that the license agreement would be a long-term license with a minimum term, and that the combined company would be obligated to pay a termination payment if the license should be terminated in some circumstances. •It is anticipated that the combined company would be required to meet certain performance obligations under the license, and a failure to meet those obligations could lead to a termination of the license. •It is anticipated that the license agreement will require the combined company to make cash royalty payments based on a fixed percentage of certain revenues relating to the license. •Any license to use the Virgin name will be limited geographically and otherwise because of rights of existing Virgin licensees. Failure to control customer churn may adversely affect our financial performance, as well as the financial performance of the combined company following the merger. The successful implementation of our business plan depends upon controlling customer churn. Customer churn is a measure of customers who stop using our services. Customer churn could increase as a result of: •billing errors and/or general reduction in the quality of our customer service as a result of the integration of billing systems and customer databases; •interruptions to the delivery of services to customers over our network; •the availability of competing services, such as the digital satellite services offered by BSkyB, the free-to-air digital television services offered by Freeview and the telephone, broadband and dial-up internet services offered by BT, TalkTalk, OneTel, Wanadoo, Tiscali, AOL, Bulldog and other third parties, some of which may, from time to time, be less expensive or technologically superior to those offered by us; •the potential loss of customers due to their required migration from our analog TV, or ATV, services to our more expensive digital television, or DTV, services when we choose, or otherwise are required, to stop transmitting our ATV signal; •the loss of ATV customers to DTV providers in areas where we do not have adequate network capable of offering DTV; and •a reduction in the quality of our customer service as a result of new product introductions, such as the roll-out of video-on-demand, or VOD, or PVR services. An increase in customer churn can lead to slower customer growth, increased costs and a reduction in revenue. 38 Failure to market broadband services successfully will adversely impact our revenue and results of operations. A significant component of our strategy is marketing broadband services to residential customers. Our business plan assumes that broadband services will be a significant contributor to our revenue and customer growth. This contribution to revenue should result both from growing numbers of broadband customers as well as growth in consumer television and consumer telephone services, resulting from broadband subscribers who elect to take one or both of other key services. Growth in broadband subscribers may slow as penetration of broadband services increases, which will affect overall customer and revenue growth. In addition, if we are unable to charge the prices for broadband services that are anticipated in our business plan as a result of competition, or if our competition offers better or more competitively-priced services to our customers, we are likely to experience reduced revenue and customer growth. We are subject to significant competition and we expect that competition will intensify. The level of competition is intense in each of the markets in which we compete, and we expect competition to increase. In particular, our telephone services and consumer television businesses compete with BT in telephone services and internet access and BSkyB in multi-channel television, each of whom has significant operational scale, resources and national distribution capacity. We also compete with internet service providers and indirect telephone access operators that offer telephone, broadband and dial-up services over BT's network, and we will face increasing competition from mobile telephone network providers and new market entrants, including those providing VOIP. The increase in competition will be compounded by technology changes and business consolidation, which may permit more competitors to offer the "triple play" of digital television, residential telephone and broadband services. In the digital television market, competition has been increased as a result of the launch of Freeview in October 2002, which provides approximately 35 digital terrestrial channels to consumers who have purchased a Freeview-enabled set-top box or a television with a digital tuner, and the launch in March 2004 by Top Up TV of a pay-television service offering approximately 11 pay-television channels for a fixed fee to subscribers who otherwise receive Freeview and have purchased Top Up TV software. Our broadband service faces increased competition from BT, Bulldog (a subsidiary of Cable & Wireless Communications plc, or C&W), OneTel, Wanadoo, Tiscali and others, as well as new providers such as BSkyB and The Carphone Warehouse. Competitors may use new alternative access technology such as advanced, faster asymmetric digital subscriber lines, or ADSL+2, to deliver speeds faster than we can provide. Local loop unbundling may decrease costs for new entrants and existing BT wholesale customers, leading to increased pricing competition. Our business services also face a wide range of competitors, including BT and C&W, and a number of regional service providers. The nature of the competition will vary depending on geography, service offerings and the size of the marketable area. In order to compete, we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our services or increase the value of our services without being able to recoup associated costs. Reduced prices or increased costs would have a negative impact on our margins and profitability. In addition, if we are unable to compete successfully, even following price reductions or value enhancements, we may not be able to attract new customers, or retain existing customers. 39 The sectors in which we compete are subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, and the effect of technological changes on our businesses cannot be predicted. The internet, television and telephone services sectors are characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. The effect of future technological changes on our business cannot be predicted. It is possible that products or other technological breakthroughs, such as VOIP, WiFi (wireless fidelity), WiMax (the extension of local WiFi networks across greater distances) or IPTV (internet protocol television), may result in our core offerings becoming less competitive. We may not be able to develop new products and services at the same rate as competitors or keep up with trends in the technology market as well as our competitors. The cost of implementing emerging and future technologies could be significant, and our ability to fund that implementation may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that new products that we may introduce will achieve full functionality or market acceptance. Our long-range plan includes VOD and PVR products. Despite testing prior to release, and our experiences in implementing VOD during 2005 and introducing TVDrive, our PVR product, in 2006, we cannot guarantee that these new products, or any other new products that we may develop in the future, will perform as expected when first introduced in the market. Should these new products and services fail to perform as expected or should they fail to gain market acceptance, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Systems failures may result in lost revenue. Our ability to identify, bill and collect revenue from our customers will be dependent on complex systems and processes. To the extent that any one or more of those systems or processes fail, we could lose customer and transaction billing data, which would prevent us from billing and collecting revenue due to us. We will continually seek ways to improve our revenue collection processes, but it is possible that such improvements may not be successful or will not yield enhanced revenue collection. Inefficient collection could result in an increase in bad debt. If we do not maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner, we could lose customers. Maintaining an uninterrupted and high-quality service over our network infrastructure is critical to our ability to attract and retain customers. Providing a competitive service level will depend in part on our ability to maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner. The maintenance and upgrade of our networks will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: •modify network infrastructure for new products and services; •install and maintain cable and equipment; and •finance maintenance and upgrades. Our bank facilities limit the level of total capital expenditure that we can incur. If this affects our ability to replace network assets at the end of their useful lives or if there is any reduction in our ability to perform necessary maintenance on network assets, our networks may have an increased failure rate, which is likely to lead to increased customer churn. 40 Our inability to obtain popular programming, or to obtain it at a reasonable cost, could potentially materially adversely affect the number of subscribers to our consumer television service or reduce margins. We have historically obtained a significant amount of our premium programming and some of our basic programming and pay-per-view sporting events from BSkyB or a BSkyB joint venture. BSkyB is a leading supplier of programming to cable television operators and is the exclusive supplier of some programming, including the Sky Sports channels and the most popular premium subscription film channels available in the U.K. We have continued to buy BSkyB wholesale premium content on the basis of an industry ratecard. There is no contractual agreement with BSkyB for the provision of such content. In addition to BSkyB, our significant programming suppliers include the BBC, ITV, Viacom, Discovery, UKTV and Turner, a division of Time Warner. Our dependence on these suppliers for television programming could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide attractive programming at a reasonable cost. A failure in our critical systems could significantly disrupt our operations, which could reduce our customer base and result in lost revenues. Our business is dependent on many sophisticated critical systems that support all of the various aspects of our cable network operations. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, malicious human acts, natural disasters, fire, power loss, war or other catastrophes. Moreover, despite security measures, our servers will be potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautions we have taken in the past, unanticipated problems affecting their systems could cause failures in our information technology systems, including systems that are critical for timely and accurate customer billing, or our customer service centers or interrupt the transmission of signals over our cable network. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide service to our customers or otherwise meet our business obligations in a timely manner would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and net revenue. Disruptions in Flextech's or sit-up's satellite transmissions could materially adversely affect their respective operations. Each of our content and sit-up segments currently broadcast their digital programming content with leased satellite transponders, the operations of which are beyond the control of Flextech and sit-up respectively. Disruption to one of these satellites would result in disruption to Flextech's or sit-up's programming and, depending upon the nature of that disruption, could result in a loss of revenues, a loss of customers and/or adverse publicity. In addition the satellite transponders may fail before the expiration of Flextech's and sit-up's respective contractual right to utilize them, which may result in additional costs as alternative arrangements are made for satellite transmission. We may be subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions, and our U.S. holding company structure may make it difficult to repatriate cash from our U.K. operating subsidiaries for purposes of paying dividends, repurchasing shares or repaying debt incurred in the U.S. without incurring U.S. tax on such cash repatriations. We have historically been subject to taxation in the U.K. and, since our reorganization, in the U.S. Our effective tax rate and tax liability will be affected by a number of factors in addition to our operating results, including the amount of taxable income in particular jurisdictions, the tax rates in these jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions, the manner in and extent to which we transfer funds to and repatriate funds from our subsidiaries, and future changes in the law. Because we operate in multiple jurisdictions and may therefore incur loss in one jurisdiction that cannot be offset against 41 income earned in a different jurisdiction, we may pay income taxes in one jurisdiction for a particular period even though on an overall basis we incur a net loss for that period. We have a U.S. holding company structure in which substantially all of our operations are in U.K. subsidiaries that are owned by one or more members of a U.S. holding company group. As a result, although we do not expect to have current U.K. tax liabilities on our operating earnings for at least the medium term, our operations may give rise to U.S. tax on "Subpart F" income, or on repatriations of cash from our U.K. operating subsidiaries to the U.S. holding company group. We do not have a significant amount of U.S. tax basis in our U.K. subsidiaries, and it will likely therefore be difficult to repatriate cash from our U.K. subsidiaries without incurring U.S. tax on the amounts repatriated. U.S. foreign tax credit rules are complex and impose significant limitations and restrictions on the use of foreign tax credits, and there can be no assurance that the combined company will generate significant foreign tax credits in the future, or that the combined company will be permitted to use such credits to reduce its U.S. tax liability even after it begins to incur U.K. tax liabilities. As a result, although we will seek to minimize, in accordance with applicable law, our U.S. tax liability as well as our overall worldwide tax liability, there can be no assurance that we will not incur material U.S. tax liabilities with respect to repatriations of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries. Regulation of the markets in which we provide our services has been changing rapidly; unpredictable changes in U.K. and EU regulations affecting the conduct of our business, including price regulations, may have an adverse impact on our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. Our principal business activities have historically been regulated and supervised by various governmental bodies in the U.K. and by the regulatory initiatives of the European Commission. Regulatory changes have recently occurred, and may in the future occur, at the U.K. or EU level with respect to licensing requirements, price regulation, interconnection arrangements, number portability, carrier pre-selection, the ability to provide digital services, ownership of media companies, programming, local loop unbundling, data protection, the provision of open access by U.K. cable operators to other telecommunications operators, and the adoption of uniform digital technology standards or the bundling of services. Regulatory changes relating to our activities and those of our competitors, such as changes relating to third-party access to cable networks, the costs of interconnection with other networks or the prices of competing products and services, could adversely affect our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control costs. Factors Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility, as well as to trends in the telecommunications industry in general, which will continue. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of prices that will prevail in the trading markets in the future, either before or after completion of the merger with NTL. Stock prices in the telecommunications sector have historically been highly volatile, and the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which will be beyond our control. These factors include actual or anticipated variations in our (and upon completion of the merger with NTL, the combined company's) operational results and cash flow, our earnings releases and our competitors' earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets and the market for telecommunications stocks, changes in capital markets that affect the perceived availability of capital to communications companies, governmental legislation or regulation, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, like recessions. Trends in this industry are likely to have a corresponding impact on the price of our common stock. 42 We may in the future seek to raise funds through equity offerings, which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. In the future, we may determine to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or our common stock. In any case, the result would ultimately be dilutive to our common stock by increasing the number of shares outstanding. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. For example, the potential transaction with Virgin Mobile may involve the issuance of equity securities. See "The combined company may engage in a transaction with Virgin Mobile that could have a significant impact on the combined company." We have not historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we may not be able to pay or maintain dividends, and the failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. Since our and our predecessor company's inceptions, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. The terms of our existing indebtedness limit our ability to pay dividends from cash generated from operations. Likewise, the terms of the combined company's indebtedness after the merger will limit the ability of the combined company to pay dividends. Pursuant to the merger agreement, NTL has the option to declare and pay quarterly cash dividends up to a maximum of $15,000,000 per annum. However, we cannot assure you that the combined company will pay cash dividends on its common stock, or, if the combined company begins to pay cash dividends on its common stock, that such dividends will continue to be paid. Sales of stock by stockholders in the combined company may decrease the price of the combined company's common stock following the merger. Based on SEC filings to date, Ameriprise Financial Inc., or Ameriprise Financial, beneficially owned approximately 11.4%, FMR Corp. beneficially owned approximately 7.2%, Franklin Mutual Advisers beneficially owned approximately 8.1%, and Mr. Huff beneficially owned approximately 8.6% of NTL's common stock, and FMR Corp. beneficially owned approximately 4.7%, Franklin Mutual Advisers beneficially owned approximately 7.9%, and Mr. Huff beneficially owned approximately 12.2% of Telewest's common stock. Assuming that none of FMR Corp., Ameriprise Financial, Mr. Huff and Franklin Mutual Advisors has sold any of its or his holdings subsequent to February 23, 2006, and giving effect to the reclassification of Telewest common stock and to the exchange ratio under the merger agreement with respect to their holdings of Telewest and NTL common stock as of such date, FMR Corp. would beneficially own approximately 5.7%, Ameriprise Financial would beneficially own approximately 7.4%, Mr. Huff would beneficially own approximately 8.2%, and Franklin Mutual Advisers would beneficially own approximately 7.0% of the common stock of the combined company outstanding immediately after the merger. Some of these stockholders will also have rights, subject to various conditions, to require the combined company to file one or more registration statements covering their shares, or to include their shares in registration statements that the combined company may file for itself or on behalf of other stockholders. Subsequent sales by any of these stockholders of a substantial amount of the combined company's common stock may significantly reduce the market price of such common stock. Moreover, the perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of the combined company's common stock could depress the trading price of such common stock for a considerable period. Sales of the combined company's common stock, and the possibility of these sales, could make it more difficult for the combined company to sell equity, or equity-related securities, in the future at a time, and price, that it considers appropriate. 43 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 