D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We depend on the principal mobile and fixed line telecommunication network operators in China and Indonesia for delivery of our telecom value-added services, and the termination or alteration of our various contracts with any of them or their provincial or local affiliates could materially and adversely impact our business. In China, we offer all of our China-based telecom value-added services, or VAS, to users through three principal mobile phone and fixed line network operators in China, China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, and China Telecom Group, or China Telecom, which service substantially all of China’s approximately 1,100 million mobile phone subscribers at the end of December 2012. As of December 2012, China Mobile had approximately 703 million mobile subscribers, or 63.9% of the mobile phone service market in China, China Unicom had approximately 233 million mobile subscribers, or 21.2% of the mobile phone service market in China, and China Telecom had approximately 156 million mobile subscribers, or the remaining 14.2% of the mobile phone service market in China. Given their dominant market position, our negotiating leverage with China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom is limited. For 2010, 2011 and 2012, we derived approximately 52.4%, 70.7%, and 69.0% respectively, of our China gross revenue from China Mobile and are, therefore, particularly dependent on that operator. Our services are provided pursuant to contracts that we have with the national offices of the operators, as well as several of their provincial and local affiliates. Each of these contracts is non-exclusive, and has a limited term (generally one or two years). We usually renew these contracts or enter into new ones when the prior contracts expire, but on occasion the renewal or new contract can be delayed by periods of one month or more. The terms of these contracts vary, but the operators are generally entitled to terminate them in advance for a variety of reasons or, in some cases, for unspecified reasons at their discretion. For example, several of our contracts with the operators can be terminated if: · we fail to achieve performance standards which are established by the applicable operator from time to time; · we breach our obligations under the contracts, which include, in many cases, the obligation not to deliver content that violates the operator’s policies and applicable law, and exclusivity provisions prohibiting us from offering services which are the same as the services we provide to any other telecommunications service providers; · the operator receives high levels of customer complaints about our services; or · the operator sends us written notice that it wishes to terminate the contract at the end of the applicable notice period. 8 In Indonesia, we offer our VAS services through nine mobile network operators, principally the three largest — PT Telekomunikasi Selular, or Telkomsel, PT Indosat Tbk, or Indosat, PT XL Axiata Tbk, or XL. Given their dominant market position, our negotiating leverage with Telkomsel, Indosat and XL is limited. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, our revenue from VAS in Indonesia represented 2.5%, 13.5% and 4.9% of our total revenue, respectively, and we are particularly dependent on Telkomsel, which contributed approximately 61%, 68% and 42% of our VAS revenue from Indonesia in those years, respectively. Our services in Indonesia are provided pursuant to contracts that we have with the operators. Each of these contracts is non-exclusive and has a limited term (generally one year). As in China, we usually renew these contracts or enter into new ones when the prior contracts expire, but on occasion the renewal or new contract can be delayed by periods of one month or more. The terms of these contracts vary, but the operators are generally entitled to terminate them in advance for a variety of reasons or, in some cases, for unspecified reasons at their discretion. For example, several of our contracts with the Indonesia-based operators can be terminated after three notifications from the operators if: · we make or produce content that is outside the content category determined in the contract; · we engage in abuse or fraud in relation to any user content and/or customer service; or · we engage in abuse or fraud in relation to access codes, tariffs, data configurations and technical specifications, or other actions that are outside the types of services that have been established in the contract. If our various contracts with any of the operators in China or Indonesia are terminated or adversely altered, it may be impossible to find appropriate replacement operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our services, and our business would be significantly impaired. Changes in the regulation of the VAS markets in which we are operating, including the policies and procedures of the operators, have negatively affected our revenue. Further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue, profitability and financial condition in the future. The VAS industries in China and Indonesia are heavily regulated, and the operators also have a wide range of policies regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the regulations, as well as operators’ policies and procedures, have changed and been refined to improve overall service quality. In addition, the operators have unilaterally changed the way such policies and procedures have been enforced as applied to third party service providers such as ourselves, and may do so again in the future. We often only become aware of such policy or procedural changes when the operators inform us orally or provide us with a monthly statement indicating an additional charge, which in either case can happen months after the originating cause or issues arose. Because of this time delay, we cannot always confirm the existence of such issues or conform our systems in a timely manner. For example, in response to policy directives from China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom introduced significant changes to their operating policies in recent years. These policy changes by the operators negatively affected our revenue and profitability from 2G, 2.5G and audio-related services in 2010, 2011 and 2012. In response to measures taken by MIIT, in November 2009 China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom implemented a series of measures targeting to eliminate offensive or unauthorized content, including pornographic content, on Wireless Application Protocol (referred to as WAP in this annual report) sites in China, and suspended the ability of all of their third party WAP service providers, including our company, to charge for services, including services that do not contain offensive or unauthorized content. This suspension is still effective, and as a result, the only revenues we receive from WAP services are from customers who registered with us prior to the suspension. Furthermore, in 2010 China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom implemented additional measures in order to further improve user experience for mobile handset embedded services, including requiring additional notices to, and confirmations by, users before purchasing wireless VAS that are embedded in mobile handsets. The operators also began requiring SMS short codes, which are special telephone numbers shorter than full telephone numbers that are widely used for ordering VAS and other activities such as voting in television program contests, to be more tailored to the specific service offering or service partner (previously, a single SMS short code could be used for multiple service offerings or partners). We do not expect the measure on WAP services to materially adversely impact our revenue and profitability given that our revenue from WAP services has not been significant, but the measures on mobile handset embedded services and SMS short codes negatively affected our revenue and profitability from data-related services in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Moreover, subsequent changes to the operators’ procedures starting in March 2010 have caused our revenue from Interactive Voice Response, or IVR, services to significantly decline since that time. 9 In addition, in October 2011, the Indonesia Telecommunication Regulatory Board, or BRTI, issued a circular which prohibits VAS providers such as us from promoting premium SMS or other content, services and contests through unsolicited SMS messages or broadcasts, which limits our ability to promote our services. The circular also required existing customers to re-register with service providers in order to continue to receive VAS. As a result, our revenue from Indonesia has been, and is expected to continue to be, adversely affected by this circular. The government conducted a public review in December 2012 for the purpose of reviewing proposed amendments prepared by the BRTI to amend existing telecom regulations in response to public complaints against operators of premium messaging services and to provide legal certainty following the issuance of the October circular. The draft amendments propose to impose additional requirements and restrictions on VAS providers. However, to date the government has not issued the revised regulation. These amendments may impose additional requirements and restrictions on our business. For more information please refer to Item 4. “Government Regulation — Indonesia — Telecommunication Industry Related Regulations.” Any future changes to telecom regulations or the operators’ policies and procedures, or in the way they are enforced, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial condition. Our business has been adversely affected and will continue to be adversely affected if the operators continue to expand their own portfolio of VAS that compete with our services. The principal mobile operators in China, as well as in Indonesia, have been continuously increasing their offerings of VAS, such as personal information management, instant messaging, mobile news, location-based services, mobile commerce and other entertainment and informational services. We believe that mobile operators in our markets are focusing on greater adoption of VAS as their dependency on such revenue rises. The operators’ offerings directly compete with our services, and the wide variety of services that mobile operators offer may make it increasingly difficult for us to compete effectively. Our business has been affected by this trend and will be adversely affected further if any of the operators decides to further increase its own offerings of VAS to users of mobile and wireless devices. Moreover, we could be partially or fully denied access to their networks as the operators expand their service offerings. We depend on the operators to maintain accurate records and to pay us for services we provide. We depend on the operators to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and to pay us for services we provide. Specifically, the operators provide us with monthly statements that do not provide itemized information regarding which of our services are being paid for. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the operators cannot be reconciled in detail to our own internal records for the reasons discussed below under “— Because the operators do not supply us with revenue and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of revenue by service type, and as a result, which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance.” In addition, we have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us in this regard because we do not have access to the operators’ internal records. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the operators miscalculate the revenue generated from our services and our portion of that revenue or if there is any miscommunication between us and the mobile operators regarding our revenue earned. Our revenue and cost of revenue are affected by billing and transmission failures which are often beyond our control. In China and Indonesia, we do not collect fees for our services from the operators in a number of circumstances, including if: · the delivery of our service to a customer is prevented because his or her phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has run out of value or the customer has ceased to be a customer of the applicable operator; · the operator experiences technical problems with its network that prevent the delivery of our services to the customer; · we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevent delivery of our services; · the customer refuses to pay for our service due to quality or other problems; or · the customer is being quarantined by the telecom operator for some reason. 10 These situations are known in the industry as billing and transmission failures, and we do not recognize or receive any revenue for services which are characterized as billing and transmission failures by the operators. Billing and transmission failures can significantly affect our revenue. In China, we are also required to pay some of our content and distribution channel providers a percentage of the revenue earned from the operators with respect to services incorporating the content providers’ products or distributed through their channels. In calculating the fees payable to these providers, we make estimates to take into account certain potential adjustments made by the operators which may have been applicable to the services incorporating the providers’ products, and reduce the fees payable by us accordingly. Nonetheless, as estimates involve making assumptions which may prove inaccurate, we have in the past paid, and may continue to pay, such providers fees which are disproportionate to what we have been paid for the relevant service. In Indonesia, we do not have an obligation to pay our partners in regards to billing and transmission failures. Because the operators do not supply us with revenue and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of revenue by service type, and which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance. In both China and Indonesia, the operators provide us with separate monthly statements for our SMS, 2.5G and audio-related services. However, the monthly statements of the operators with respect to each such service category do not contain revenue and billing and transmission failure information on a specific service-by-service basis. Although we maintain our own records reporting the services provided, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and cost of revenue by service type because we are unable to confirm which services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures. As a result, we are not able to definitively calculate and monitor service-by-service revenue, margins and other financial information, such as average revenue per user by service and total revenue per user by service, and also cannot definitively determine which of our services are or may be profitable. The operators may also impose higher service or network fees on us if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria. In China, the operators charge us if their customers default in payment of our service fees. Fees for our VAS are charged on a monthly subscription or per use basis. Based on our contractual arrangements, we rely on the operators for both billing of, and collection from, phone users of fees for our services. China Mobile generally charges us a service fee of 15.0% to 30.0% of the revenue generated by our services. China Unicom and China Telecom have implemented a sliding scale system whereby the percentage of gross revenue received by the service provider can range from 39.0% to 85.0% and 59.0% to 85.0%, respectively, depending on customer usage, revenue and other performance criteria. In 2012, we received on average 82.0%, 75.0% and 61.0%, respectively, of the gross revenue from China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. Moreover, to the extent that the number of messages sent by us over each operator’s network in most provinces exceeds the number of messages our customers send to us, we must pay per message network fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of our services increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our users, for example, if a user sends us a single message to order a game but we in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that we will be able to satisfy these criteria in the future or that the operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. In addition, in China, the operators, through most of their provincial and local offices, charge us services fees and network fees even when a customer defaults in payment to the operators for our services. Our gross margins are reduced as a result of these charges, and any future increase in the operator’s network fees and service charges will likely reduce our gross margins further. In Indonesia, our revenue sharing arrangement with telecom operators generally uses a three-tiered system: if we are considered a Class A content provider, the revenue share is 40% for the telecom operator and 60% for us; a Class B content provider, 50% for the telecom operator and 50% for us; a Class C content provider, 60% for the telecom operator and 40% for us. To be considered a Class A content provider, our revenue must be at least IDR100 million (US$11,000) per month; a Class B content provider, more than IDR50 million (US$5,500) but less than IDR100 million (US$11,000) per month; Class C content provider, IDR50 million (US$5,500) or less. Although Telkomsel, Indosat and XL all currently consider us a Class A content provider, there is no guarantee that we will qualify as a Class A content provider in the future. If we do not qualify as a Class A content provider, our revenues generated by our services in Indonesia may be materially affected. In China, the operators may not authorize our services to be offered on their networks or restrict the service fees we may charge if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria. In China, our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria imposed or revised by the operators at their discretion from time to time. The operators, through their provincial and local offices, have historically preferred to work only with a small group of the best performing VAS providers, based upon the uniqueness of the service offered by each provider, total number of users, usage and revenue generated in the applicable province or municipality, the rate of customer complaints, and marketing expenditures in the applicable province or municipality. 11 If we fail to meet the then current performance criteria that the operators set from time to time, our services could be excluded from their networks at a provincial, municipal or national level, or we could be precluded from introducing new services or services with higher fees, which would adversely affect our revenue and growth prospects. China Mobile implements a quarterly credit and ranking of its SMS and IVR service providers, respectively, based on certain performance criteria, and those service providers that fall into a lower rank are subject to restrictions in service fees they may charge in the following quarters until their ranking improves. China Mobile may extend such ranking systems to other services in the future. During 2010, 2011 and 2012, some of the VAS offered by our affiliated entities received lower ranks for certain quarters which reduced our revenue in those periods. If the services offered by our affiliated entities fail to achieve a satisfactory ranking in the future, the service fees we may charge for these services may be restricted, which would adversely affect our revenue and profit margin. The services we offer and the prices we charge are subject to approval by the operators, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. In China and Indonesia, we must obtain approval from the operators with respect to each service that we propose to offer to their customers and the pricing for such service. In addition, any changes in the pricing of our existing services must be approved in advance by these operators. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, under all of our contracts with China Mobile and most of our contracts with China Unicom and China Telecom, we cannot change prices more than once every six months or charge prices outside of a fixed range. Failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our business. In addition, the operators’ more rigorous enforcement of their customer service policies in recent years may result in stricter scrutiny by the operators of our proposed services and pricing, which may in turn delay the approval process or result in disapproval of such proposed services or pricing. We recognize a portion of our revenue for our services through the use of estimates of monthly revenue to the extent we are unable to obtain actual figures from the operators before we finalize our financial statements. To the extent our estimates differ from actual figures reported by the operators, this could require us to make adjustments to our financial statements and cause delay in the announcement of our quarterly earnings. In China and Indonesia, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on estimates of monthly revenue based on our internal records for the month and monthly confirmation rates with the operators in prior months if we are unable to obtain actual figures from the operators before we finalize our financial statements. Actual revenue may differ from prior estimates when unexpected variations in billing and transmission failures occur. To the extent our estimates differ from actual figures reported by the operators, this could potentially require us to later make adjustments to our financial statements if the operators’ billing statements and cash payments are different from our estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation and the price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, the variation between our actual revenue and prior estimates was 1.6%, 3.3% and 3.5%, respectively, of our gross revenue. We face intense competition in the VAS markets in China and Indonesia. The Chinese market for VAS is intensely competitive, and is changing rapidly. We compete principally with three groups of VAS providers in China: · dedicated service providers similar to Linktone whose business focus is to offer a variety of telecom content directly to mobile and fixed-line phone users; · the national Internet portal operators in China, which offer Internet access and content aggregation services on a nationwide basis in addition to telecom services; and 12 · niche service providers, which focus primarily on a particular market segment or application that often builds on a pre- existing sector competency. In addition, we also face growing competition from China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom as they increase their offerings of VAS. The Indonesian market for VAS is also fiercely competitive. There are over 30 service providers in Indonesia, many of whom are expanding their content and have a more established brand and market position in comparison to our company. Some of our competitors offer VAS which are similar to our portfolio of services, while others focus on particular categories of services. We focus on launching 3G services and leveraging the broad range of content provided by the GMC Group, but we cannot be certain that such services and content will be appealing to customers. In addition, while we believe that the number of users of VAS, in particular for mobile games and ringback tones, have been increasing rapidly in Indonesia, certain types of services such as SMS subscriptions has experienced slower growth in recent periods as the markets for such services mature. Moreover, a number of Internet and web portal operators offer similar content for free in Indonesia. To compete against such providers, we develop mobile applications that contain our content menu, which enables customers to simply click the items that they want and we will charge them for the content. Such applications can be downloaded by a customer into his or her mobile handset, or we can embed them into mobile handsets by cooperating with handset makers or distributors. We share our revenue with the handset makers, which tends to lower our margins for the services we sell in Indonesia. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from the relatively wealthier coastal and southern provinces in China, and the termination or alteration of our contracts with the operators or a general economic downturn in those areas could have a particularly adverse effect on our business. Per capita income levels and mobile phone penetration rates (i.e., the number of mobile subscribers divided by the population of China) in China are generally higher in the coastal and southern provinces, such as Guangdong, Shangdong, Liaoning, and Zhejiang provinces, as well as the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing, which are among our top revenue generating locales. Some of our contracts are with the operators’ parent companies and are nationwide, while other contracts are with the respective affiliates of the operators in various provinces and municipalities. As noted above, there are numerous, often highly- subjective bases on which the operators have the right to terminate our contracts with them. Moreover, some of our nationwide contracts or contracts with affiliates of China Mobile for Guangdong, Shandong, Liaoning and Zhejiang provinces and the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing can be terminated at the discretion of either contracting party upon 15 to 30 days notice, depending on the contract. If these contracts are terminated or adversely altered or there is a general economic downturn in those areas, our business could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether there will be a termination of our contracts with affiliates of the operators in significant provinces in the future. We may face increasing risks relating to conducting business internationally. Although to date we have generated the major portion of our revenue within the PRC, we are in the process of implementing our long-term strategy to enter other markets in Asia to expand our geographic coverage and our range of product and service offerings. In 2009, we recorded revenue of $0.7 million from providing VAS and related market and technical services in Indonesia to PT Infokom Elektrindo, or Infokom, an affiliate of PT Global Mediacom Tbk, or GMC, our controlling shareholder. GMC, its subsidiaries and affiliates are hereinafter collectively referred to as GMC Group. Subsequently in June 2010, we purchased a mandatory convertible bond, or MCB, issued by PT Inti Idaman Nusantara, or IDN, which has been renamed PT Linktone Indonesia, or PT Linktone, from Starlight Ltd, or Starlight, a United Arab Emirates company, for a total consideration of $13.2 million. In September 2010, we converted the bond into new shares of PT Linktone representing 51% of its outstanding share capital (the remaining 49% interest in PT Linktone is owned by MNC and MIMEL), and we now conduct all of our VAS activities in Indonesia through PT Linktone. We had revenue of $1.8 million, $8.2 million and $2.2 million from PT Linktone’s provision of VAS in Indonesia in 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. The purpose of the acquisition was in line with our expansion strategy in the region. We are also continuously looking for other opportunities to leverage the extensive media resources and relationships with content providers of GMC Group. As part of this initiative, we and PT Media Nusantara Citra Tbk, or MNC (through its wholly owned subsidiary, MNC International Middle East Limited, or MIMEL) acquired 50% and 25%, respectively, of the share capital of InnoForm Media Pte. Ltd., or InnoForm, in March 2010. In June 2010, we subscribed for additional new shares of InnoForm, as a result of which we and MNC (through MIMEL) hold 75% and 12.5% of the equity interest of InnoForm, respectively. For additional discussion, see Item 7.B. “Related Party Transactions.” 13 InnoForm is a Singapore-based company with regional offices in Malaysia and Hong Kong, specializing in the development, distribution and licensing of edutainment and entertainment products. We have very limited experience, however, operating in markets outside of China and in managing non-VAS businesses. These initiatives may cause us to become increasingly subject to various risks relating to conducting business abroad, including: · political and economic instability in countries where we offer our products and services; · different user preferences and usage habits with respect to VAS and other services, and consumption of video, audio and print content in other markets; · different or changing policies and procedures of operators; · legal or regulatory restrictions; · potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · differing protection of intellectual property; and · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable because of distance and different legal rules. Our future growth and profitability may be materially and adversely affected if we cannot adequately manage these and any other risks which arise in connection with our international expansion. We may also be subject to impairment charges if the value of any of our overseas investments declines, as discussed in the foregoing risk factor. We rely on an affiliate of GMC in operating a material portion of our VAS business in Indonesia, and the termination or alteration of our arrangements with such entity, including our use of its short codes, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. We rely on an affiliate of GMC, Infokom, in operating a material portion of our VAS business in Indonesia where customers access VAS through numerical codes shorter than telephone numbers, or short codes, that are registered with the telecom operators. These short codes are used by customers to order VAS and take other actions such as voting in television program contests. In 2010, MNC transferred the ownership of one short code to PT Linktone and we are currently in the process of registering PT Linktone’s ownership of this short code with the telecom operators. Nonetheless, a material portion of our VAS business depends on an agreement with an affiliate of GMC, Infokom. Under this agreement, Infokom, has assigned the rights to use three of its short codes to PT Linktone in exchange for a fee equal to 10% of the revenues generated through the use of such short codes, net of the telecom operators’ fees. Infokom in turn has cooperative agreements regarding the registration of such short codes with the telecom operators. We have no direct contracts with such operators with respect to Infokom’s short codes. Because PT Linktone does not own Infokom’s short codes, but merely has the right to use such short codes, we depend on Infokom to keep its contracts with the operators in effect and to remit revenue from the operators to us for the use of such short codes. If Infokom does not maintain its contractual arrangements with the telecom operators or decides to stop providing short codes to us or charges us increased fees for the use of such short codes, we may be unable to enter into such contracts directly with the operators or to obtain new short codes from alternate sources. In any such case, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our expansion into the entertainment and edutainment products distribution market through our acquisition of InnoForm may not be successful. InnoForm primarily sells home entertainment products such as VCDs, DVDs, Blu-ray discs and video-on-demand, including movies, television programs and educational videos, to consumers in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Hong Kong and Vietnam. Its operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors that could have an adverse impact on the business. Thus, the operational and financial results of this acquisition may differ from our expectations. 14 InnoForm faces significant competition from other video distributors operating in Southeast Asia such as Scorpio East Holdings Pte Ltd and Berjaya HVN (S) Pte Ltd, as well as a number of smaller low cost distributors. Several of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and databases, significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and superior access to original content than we have. As a result, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenue. In addition, commencing in mid-2010, overall sales of entertainment and edutainment products in InnoForm’s markets have declined, which has adversely affected the revenue of InnoForm and other industry participants. This decline has resulted from a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including a proliferation of illegal free-to-download quality video websites and increasing penetration of high-speed broadband in major cities, particularly in Singapore. As a result, we expect that viewers will consume more video content online. Other factors which have adversely affected InnoForm’s business and results of operations include: · high rental rates in Southeast Asian cities which has caused many retailers to decrease the number of outlets they operate; · the availability of parallel-imported video products from lower-cost countries such as China, Malaysia and Indonesia; · consistent with the industry trend worldwide, relatively slower sales of DVDs; · a reluctance among many major content producers, such as Hollywood movie studios, to change their distributors which limits InnoForm’s ability to increase market share; · increasing competition from online portals, movie theaters and other forms of entertainment and education; and · increasing costs to acquire desirable content. In addition, InnoForm also obtains all of its entertainment and edutainment content from third parties, and its cost of acquiring such content has been increasing in recent years which has, and may continue to, negatively impact its profitability and liquidity. We are focusing on broadening InnoForm’s distribution network to include new media digital platforms which will allow customers to buy home entertainment products online and consume video content via online and wireless devices. We can provide no assurance that these efforts will be successful or that they will generate sufficient sales to offset the ongoing decline in sales of physical discs. We cannot be certain that, if we are able to launch our online commerce and video services, such services will be able to compete with other websites which offer online video content, particularly those which offer content in violation of copyright protections and may allow downloads for free or at significantly lower prices than we can charge. The VAS industry in China and Indonesia is rapidly evolving, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business. We began commercially offering VAS in China in 2000 while PT Linktone, previously known as IDN, began offering VAS in Indonesia in 2009. Over the last several years, the technologies and services used in the VAS industry in these markets have developed rapidly. As a result of this rapid and continual change in the industry, you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development. These risks include our ability to: · attract and retain users for our VAS, especially for our 2.5G and audio-related services, in the face of increasing penetration of 3G phones that are replacing 2G and 2.5G phones to which our VAS offerings cater; · attract and retain users for our VAS in relation to mobile online games which have increased in 2011 following our acquisition of a 50.01% interest in Letang Game Limited, or Letang, a private Chinese company specializing in the development of mobile games and PC games, in January 2010; · expand the content and services that we offer and, in particular, develop and aggregate innovative new content and service offerings, and sources of revenue which are not dependent on the operators; · procure effective distribution channels to promote our services; 15 · respond effectively to rapidly evolving competitive and market dynamics and address the effects of mergers and acquisitions among our competitors; · maintain, expand and enhance our relationships with international media companies and other strategic partners and to generate meaningful returns from such partnerships; and · increase awareness of our brand and user loyalty. In both China and Indonesia, we have commenced offering 3G services although we have limited experience offering these types of services. Because of our limited experience commercially offering such services, we may not be able to offer services which are attractive to 3G users in a timely manner or at all. Our inability to successfully capture opportunities in the 3G market could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Due to above factors, there can be no certainty that we will maintain or increase our current share of the highly competitive market in which we operate. The success of some of our VAS is significantly dependent on our ability to obtain, customize and localize desirable content and technology from third parties and distribute our services effectively. We are increasingly obtaining much of our VAS content, including wireless games, e-reading, music, news and other content such as popular radio or television programs, from third parties. Furthermore, we expect that we will license technology in connection with our development of next generation services. As the market for VAS develops, content and technology providers and distribution channel providers have increased their profits from these distribution and localization arrangements by demanding a greater share of revenue or other fees, which has adversely affected our financial performance, including adversely affecting our revenue and gross margin in 2012. Many of our arrangements with content and technology providers as well as distribution channel providers are non- exclusive, short-term and subject to renewal. If our competitors are able to provide or distribute such content in a similar or superior manner or to license the same technologies, it could adversely affect the popularity of our services and our negotiating leverage with third party providers. In addition, lack of effective distribution channels has adversely affected our revenue from 2.5G services in 2011 and 2012. In addition, we must often invest significant resources in customizing and localizing the content and applications we license or purchase for the Chinese telecom market. This may include work ranging from translating the content or application interface into Chinese to performing significant development work to utilize the particular content or application. If we fail to establish and maintain economically attractive relationships with content, technology and distribution channel providers or to thereafter successfully customize and localize any third party content or technology, we may not be able to attract and retain users or maintain or improve our financial performance. Our acquisitions or ventures with strategic partners may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We have made acquisitions and formed strategic alliances in the past. Some of the companies we acquired have not performed as well as we expected, and required significant further capital input and attention from our management. We also have terminated or restructured certain strategic alliances. For example, we recognized an impairment provision of $1.3 million in 2010 related to a loan receivable in connection with our partnership to distribute U.S. Major League Baseball content. Nevertheless, if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may continue to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products or enter into strategic alliances which are complementary to our core VAS business in the future, but may also present similar challenges. For example, a consolidated affiliate, Shanghai Weilan Computer Co., Ltd. (“Weilan”), acquired a controlling interest in Letang in January 2010. In addition, we and MNC (through MIMEL) acquired in the aggregate 87.5% of the share capital of InnoForm in March 2010 and June 2010, and in June 2010 we acquired mandatory convertible bonds that were converted into new shares of PT Linktone representing 51% of its outstanding share capital, as described above. In May 2012, our subsidiary PT Linktone acquired Okezone.com, one of the largest news portals in Indonesia, from a related party. The requirement for significant further capital input and the diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Acquisitions or strategic alliances expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new operations, services and personnel, ensuring effective internal controls with respect to acquired or new businesses, the extent to which acquired or new businesses give rise to unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions or strategic alliances and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and content providers as a result of integration of new businesses. 16 Given the sophisticated technologies used in the VAS industry, the successful, cost-effective integration of other businesses’ technology platforms and services into our own is also a critical, and highly complex, aspect of any acquisition or strategic alliance. If we are unable to successfully enter into and implement acquisitions or strategic alliances in future periods, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred net losses for a significant portion of our history. We incurred significant net losses until the first quarter of 2003 and began incurring net losses again in the first quarter of 2007 until the fourth quarter of 2008 during which time we were implementing our cross-media strategy which involved significant expenses. We also incurred a net loss for the fourth quarters of 2009 and 2010, the second quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2012. We could incur significant net losses in the future due to changes in the market, operating environment and competitive dynamics and our ability to respond to those changes, as well as any possible new strategic initiatives launched by our company. If we do not sustain profitability, the market price of our ADSs may decline. We have been required to record charges to earnings because the value of certain of our assets was deemed to have been impaired, and we may record such charges in future periods. We are required by U.S. GAAP to review our receivables, short-term investments, intangible assets, goodwill and other assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We recorded an impairment charge of $2.5 million in 2009 related to the goodwill for our PC game business, which was caused by a downward revision in expected future cash flow for that business resulting from market competition, and an impairment of $1.3 million in 2010 in connection with our partnership to distribute U.S. Major League Baseball content, as noted above. In 2012, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $9.9 million in relation to our China VAS and media content reporting units due to the challenging business outlook for our VAS business in China and for DVD sales in Asia. Please refer to Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations” and “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We may be required to record similar impairment charges in the future if we determine that the value of our assets is impaired. Our mobile games business has a short operating history, and the mobile games market in the PRC and Indonesia is subject to many uncertainties. We, through our affiliate Weilan, acquired a controlling interest in Letang in January 2010 in order to accelerate our presence in the mobile games market. However, our mobile games business has a short operating history, and our prior efforts to develop an in-house mobile game development team were not successful. As a result, there is limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our mobile games business and its potential to generate revenues in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing our mobile games business, which will depend, among other things, on our ability to: · respond to market developments, including the development of new platforms and technologies, and changes in pricing and distribution models; · maintain and diversify our distribution channels, including through China Mobile and the other telecommunications operators and handset manufacturers; · develop new high-quality mobile games that can achieve significant market acceptance, and timely improve our existing mobile games to extend their life spans and to maintain their competitiveness in the mobile games market; · supplement our internally developed mobile games by acquiring mobile games from third-party mobile games developers or cooperating with third-party mobile games developers to jointly develop mobile games; · develop and upgrade our technologies; · successfully manage the mobile advertising revenues that we receive through third party Internet companies or mobile advertisements aggregators such as AdMob and Chartboost, which only pass on to us a certain percentage of any advertising revenues generated; and · execute our business and marketing strategies successfully. 17 In addition, the mobile games market is an emerging market in the PRC and Indonesia. The growth of this market and the level of demand and market acceptance of our mobile games are subject to many uncertainties. The development of this market and our ability to derive revenues from this market depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: · the growth rate of mobile data services in the PRC and Indonesia; · changes in consumer demographics, tastes and preferences; · changes in handset platform technologies and mobile games distribution channels; · potential competition from established companies that develop and operate personal computer-based online games and may enter the mobile online games market; and · the popularity and price of new mobile games and merchandise and premium features embedded in games that we and our competitors may launch and distribute in the future. Due to the uncertainties in connection with our mobile games business in particular and the mobile games market in the PRC and Indonesia generally, we cannot guarantee that our mobile games business will contribute significantly to our future revenues. Our failure to successfully develop this business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our social commerce business has a short operating history, and the social commerce market in Indonesia is subject to many uncertainties. We, through our subsidiary PT Linktone, acquired Okezone.com in May 2012, which is an online news and entertainment portal in Indonesia. However, our social commerce business has a short operating history, and, as a result, there is limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our social commerce business and its potential to generate revenues in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be successful operating this business, which will depend, among other things, on our ability to: · successfully compete for readers’ attention in a crowded market against portal operators such as detik.com, kompas.com, viva.co.id and an increasing number of news aggregator services such as plasamsn.com, lintas.me and yahoo.com; · successfully manage the online advertising revenues that we receive through Google AdSense and other Internet advertising networks that only pass on to us a certain percentage of any advertising revenues generated; and · successfully manage our staffing costs in a labor-intensive industry. Due to the uncertainties in connection with our social commerce business, we cannot guarantee that it will contribute significantly to our future revenues. Our failure to successfully develop this business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continuing service of our key executives, particularly Hary Tanoesoedibjo, our Chief Executive Officer, and Peck Joo Tan, our Chief Financial Officer. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers. We also rely on a number of key technology and product development staff for the operation of our company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology and product development staff leaving our company is high and could disrupt our operations. 18 We may need additional capital and may not be able to obtain such capital on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, it may result in operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations and/or additional dilution to our shareholders. It is difficult to plan for capital requirements in our rapidly changing industry. We may need additional capital for our future acquisitions, service development, technological infrastructure and sales and marketing activities. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, securities of VAS companies; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows; · governmental regulations of foreign investment in VAS companies; · economic, political and other conditions in the PRC, Indonesia and other countries in which we operate; and · governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. If our current sources are insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may seek to obtain a credit facility or sell additional equity or debt securities. If we fail to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all, such failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we may not be able to carry out parts of our future growth strategy to acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing business or necessary to maintain our growth and competitiveness. Even if we are able to obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, the incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that would restrict operations. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to shareholders. Business growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As our user base increases, we will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, customer service and sales and marketing which are important to our future success. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services and our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. For example, any such performance issue could prompt the operators to cease offering our services over their networks. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: · develop and quickly introduce new services, adapt our existing services and maintain and improve the quality of all of our services, particularly as new mobile technologies such as 3G or 4G are introduced; · effectively maintain our relationships with the operators and our other partners; · expand the percentage of our revenue which are recurring and are derived from monthly subscription based services; · develop sources of revenue which are not dependent on the operators; · enter into and maintain relationships with desirable content providers; · continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management, some of whom have been with our company for less than one year; · develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls; and 19 · maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Any failure of the telecommunications networks in the markets in which we operate, the Internet or our technology platform may reduce use of our services. Both the continual accessibility of the networks of the operators and the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in the markets in which we operate are critical to our ability to attract and retain users. Moreover, our business depends on our ability to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. The servers which constitute the principal system hardware for our operations in China are located in five locations in Beijing. We maintain backup system hardware in our office in Beijing, but cannot be certain such backup will be adequate if there are problems with our primary system hardware. In Indonesia, our websites and services are made available through network servers located in Jakarta. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures caused by sustained power shutdowns, floods or fire causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware equipment, or other events outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of the mobile networks, the Internet or our technology platform, could adversely impact our ability to provide our services to users and decrease our revenue. If our exclusive providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services or increase their prices, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on affiliates of the operators to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for our services in China pursuant to contracts which have one-year terms. If any of the operators or their respective affiliates fails to provide such services, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to find a substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by the operators or their respective affiliates. If any of the operators or their respective affiliates fails to provide these services or raise their prices, our business could be adversely affected. We generate our internal funds almost exclusively from our subsidiaries. If those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, we may lose almost all of our internal sources of funds. We are a holding company with assets consisting primarily of cash generated from our initial public offering in March 2004 and issuance of new shares to MNC in April 2008, as well as our equity interests in our subsidiaries. See Item 4. “Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company.” Our internal source of funds has been derived almost exclusively from dividend payments from our subsidiaries after they receive dividends and payments from our subsidiaries and affiliated VIE entities. We are likely to lose all or part of our sources of funds if those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, except for interest and dividends we earned on our fixed deposits and short-term investments which totaled $1.0 million in 2010, $2.9 million in 2011 and $1.9 million in 2012 and any capital gains from the sale of investments recognized by our company. See also “— Any changes to our tax incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our foreign ADS holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on their sales of our ADSs if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise” below.” Under Chinese law, Linktone Consulting, Huitong, Linktone Internet, Xintong, Wang You, Linktone Software and Ruida are required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are established to offset losses and for other general purposes under Chinese law and they are not distributable as cash dividends. If further restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiaries are implemented under Chinese law, our ability to receive cash dividends from these entities could be materially and adversely effected. If any of our subsidiaries incurs any debt, it could impact our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and harm our reputation. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material 20 risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect our systems against the threat of such computer viruses and hacking and to rectify any damage to our systems. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking which affects our systems is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. Our revenue fluctuates significantly and may adversely impact the trading price of our ADSs or any other securities which become publicly traded. Our revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control such as the changes in the policies of the operators and the enforcement of these policies. Steady revenue and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: · attract and retain users in the increasingly competitive VAS markets in China and Indonesia; · successfully implement our business strategies; and · update and develop our services, technologies and content, including aggregating, customizing and localizing third party technologies and content for the China market and other Asian markets we are entering. Because the VAS industry in China and Indonesia is rapidly evolving and our business is also relatively new, including in particular our strategy to enter other markets in Asia such as the market for entertainment and entertainment products, and has experienced significant volatility in terms of financial results as a result of the factors stated above, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. We may be held liable for information displayed on or retrieved from our service offerings. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are provided via our VAS. For example, we could be subject to defamation claims for messages posted on our services that allow chatting, or SMS news updates sent to users by us could possibly be deemed to contain state secrets in violation of applicable Chinese law. In addition, third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on information distributed by us. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have registered 265 trademarks with China’s Trademark Office, and are in the process of applying for 15 additional trademarks in China. We have also obtained 72 copyright certificates in China for certain cartoons and images and 55 copyright certificates for computer software. We have no trademarks registered in the other markets in which we operate, including Indonesia. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate and effective to prevent infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in China where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. For example, competitors could copy one or more of our downloadable icons, and we may not become aware of the infringement in a timely manner or at all or be able to take effective action to enforce our rights. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. 21 Prolonged disruptions to the global credit and capital markets and the global economy may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial conditions, prospects and future expansion plans. Since the second half of 2008, global credit and capital markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, have experienced generally difficult conditions, and many of the world’s major economies experienced slow or negative growth from 2009 through 2012. These challenging market conditions have resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads, lack of price transparency in credit markets, a reduction in available financing and lack of market confidence. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment in the United States and elsewhere in the world, have precipitated a global economic slowdown. Given the dramatic change in the overall credit environment and economy, it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and the extent to which we may be affected. The uncertainty and volatility of credit and capital markets and the overall economy has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that measures implemented by governments around the world to stabilize the credit and capital markets and new financial and economic policies, rules and regulations in jurisdictions where we operate will improve market confidence and the overall credit environment and economy. To the extent that there have been improvements in some areas, it is uncertain whether such recovery is sustainable. In addition, our plan to expand our business internationally may be adversely affected by an economic downturn in the countries or regions where we plan to expand our business. As a result, prolonged disruptions to the global credit and capital markets and the global economy may materially and adversely affect the Chinese economy and in the other markets where we offer our products and services, consumer spending in such markets and our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospect and future expansion plans. Exposure to foreign exchange risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in exchange rates influence our results of operations. Our business is currently primarily conducted in and from China, Singapore and Indonesia in their respective currencies — Renminbi, Singapore dollar and Indonesian rupiah. Any devaluation of the Renminbi, Singapore dollar and Indonesian rupiah against the U.S. dollar may have an adverse impact on our operations and would adversely affect our financial performance measured in U.S. dollars. From 1994 to July 21, 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, was based on exchange rates published by the People’s Bank of China, which were set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. During that period, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars was generally stable. On July 21, 2005, the Renminbi was revalued and allowed to fluctuate by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result, as of December 31, 2012, the Renminbi has appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar since July 2005. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantially more liberalized currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Further revaluations of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may also occur. With respect to Indonesia, one of the most important immediate causes of the economic crisis which began in Indonesia in mid-1997 was the depreciation and volatility of the value of the Indonesian rupiah, as measured against other currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Although the Indonesian rupiah has appreciated considerably from its low point of approximately IDR16,000 per U.S. dollar in 1998, it may experience volatility again in the future. In addition, while the Indonesian rupiah has generally been freely convertible and transferable (except that Indonesian banks may not transfer Indonesian rupiah to persons outside of Indonesia who lack a bona fide trade or investment purpose), from time to time, Bank Indonesia has intervened in the currency exchange markets in furtherance of its policies, either by selling Indonesian rupiah or by using its foreign currency reserves to purchase Indonesian rupiah. We cannot assure you that the current floating exchange rate policy of Bank Indonesia will not be modified or that the Indonesian government will take additional action to stabilize, maintain or increase the value of the Indonesian rupiah, or that any of these actions, if taken, will be successful. Modification of the current floating exchange rate policy could result in significantly higher domestic interest rates, liquidity shortages, capital or exchange controls or the withholding of additional financial assistance by multinational lenders. This could result in a reduction of economic activity, an economic recession, loan defaults or declining usage of our subscribers, and as a result, we may also face difficulties in funding our capital expenditures and in implementing our business strategy. Our business and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could be negatively affected by a revaluation of the functional currencies of our business. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi or rupiah for our operational needs and should the Renminbi or rupiah appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi or rupiah into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi or rupiah, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 22 Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Natural disasters such as earthquakes may affect our VAS. Natural disasters such as snow storms, earthquakes, floods, typhoons and droughts may affect our VAS because provision of these services may be curtailed due to technical problems. For example, on April 14, 2010, China experienced an earthquake with a reported magnitude of 6.9 on the Richter scale in Qinghai Province, resulting in the death of over 2,000 people, and causing an interruption to our VAS. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industries in China and Indonesia are still at an early stage of development, and insurance companies in China and Indonesia offer limited business insurance products. Moreover, while business liability and business disruption insurance is available in China, Indonesia and Singapore, we have determined that the risks of business liability or business disruption and the cost of insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. As a result, we do not have any insurance coverage for business liability or business disruption. Any business liability, business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for United States federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors who owned our shares or ADSs during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75.0% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income (the “income test”), or (b) 50.0% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income (the “asset test”). For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25.0% or more of the shares of another corporation, we generally will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We believe we were a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the previously ended taxable year and may be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year. Under the income and asset tests, whether or not we are a PFIC will be determined annually based upon the composition of our income and the composition and valuation of our assets, all of which are subject to change. In addition, in valuing our assets, we have made a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable. However, it is possible that the IRS may disagree with these assumptions, which may affect the determination of whether we are a PFIC in a given year. Because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will or will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the IRS will not challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. If we are a PFIC in any year with respect to a U.S. Holder (as defined below), the U.S. Holder will be required to file an annual information return on IRS Form 8621 regarding distributions received on our shares or ADSs and any gain realized on the disposition of our shares or ADSs. In addition, under recently enacted U.S. tax legislation, if we are a PFIC U.S. Holders will be required to file an annual information return (also on IRS Form 8621) relating to their ownership of our shares or ADSs. Although the IRS has updated Form 8621 to include a new Part I, Summary of Annual Information, to reflect this filing requirement, pursuant to Notice 2011-55 and the instructions to the Revised Form 8621, completion of that part is not required until the underlying Treasury Regulations are published. Prior to filing their annual income tax returns, U.S. Holders should consult their tax advisers regarding whether additional guidance has been issued with respect to this reporting requirement, and if so, how to comply with such guidance. 23 For further discussion of the adverse United States federal income tax consequences of our possible classification as a PFIC, see Item 10.E. “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation.” We may have to constrain our business activities to avoid being deemed an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. The United States Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides generally that a company is an investment company which must register as such under the 1940 Act and comply with its regulations if: (i) the company is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (ii) more than 40% of the value of the company’s total assets is represented by investment securities as defined therein. The 1940 Act contains substantive regulations with respect to investment companies, including restrictions on their capital structure, operations, transactions with affiliates and other matters that would be incompatible with our operations. We may therefore have to incur significant costs and management time to avoid investment company status and may suffer other adverse consequences if we are deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. A substantial portion of our assets may or are likely to be considered investment securities for purposes of the 1940 Act. These assets include fixed time deposits and short- and long-term investments. Although we believe that we do not currently fall within the definition of an investment company under the 1940 Act, we may not be able to conduct or significantly expand our business activities in relation to these types of assets in the future, and there is no assurance that we will not be deemed an investment company under the 1940 Act in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws, and are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if we become an “accelerated filer” as such term is defined in the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, our independent registered public accounting firm would be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future annual reports on Form 20-F. Our management has concluded that our internal controls were not effective as of December 31, 2012 due to a material weakness related to revenue recognition for new business streams established in 2012 by our China operations as well as a material weakness in our financial statements reporting process, including revenue recognition, due to resource constraints in an Indonesian subsidiary, PT Linktone. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Although we believe that the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 20-F present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flow for the periods presented in conformity with U.S. GAAP, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate these material weaknesses. Our independent registered public accounting firm may also identify additional weaknesses or deficiencies in the course of its ongoing assessment of our internal controls. Remedying these material weaknesses that have been identified, and any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that our independent registered public accounting firm may identify in the future, could require us to incur additional costs, divert management resources or make other changes. We have taken various remedial steps to address the material weaknesses referenced above as discussed in detail in this annual report under Item 15. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of our material weaknesses, any failure to remediate such material weaknesses in a timely fashion or having or maintaining ineffective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. We are controlled by GMC, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. GMC currently holds approximately 60.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, it has control in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval. In addition, without the consent of GMC, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of GMC may differ from the interests of the other shareholders. 24 We may not be able to collect our loans to PT Cakrawala Alam Semesta, and such arrangements could be deemed to be in violation of existing or future Indonesian regulations on foreign investment in fixed time deposits. During the period from July to November 2009, we extended loans in the aggregate principal amount of US$35.0 million to PT Cakrawala Alam Semesta, or Cakrawala, an Indonesian company controlled by us through contractual arrangements and treated as our VIE for accounting purposes. Cakrawala is owned by two of GMC Group’s employees. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Our Corporate Structure” for information regarding such contractual arrangements. Cakrawala places the money we loaned to it in fixed time deposits with Indonesian banks. Such deposits can only be made by domestic Indonesian entities, and we established this VIE arrangement with Cakrawala to take advantage of favorable interest rates on fixed time deposits in Indonesia. Such fixed time deposits were in U.S. dollars in 2009, and in February 2010 we converted approximately US$15 million into Indonesian rupiah. Since these VIE arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over Cakrawala, in the event that Cakrawala fails to perform its obligations under our loan agreement with it, we may incur a loss on this loan or costs to enforce these arrangements. In 2010, Cakrawala partially repaid the loans. As at December 31, 2012, the outstanding loan balance was US$13.9 million. In addition, there have been media reports that Indonesia’s central bank will announce measures on capital flows to control the frequent inflow and outflow of short-term funds. We cannot predict whether, or when, the Indonesian government will introduce capital control mechanisms in the future. Moreover, our VIE arrangements with Cakrawala could possibly be deemed a violation of existing Indonesian regulations on foreign investments in Indonesian fixed time deposits. In each case, our VIE arrangements with Cakrawala might be prohibited or restricted, which, if applied, could have a material adverse effect on our investments in Indonesia. Our VIE arrangements with Cakrawala and PT Innoform could be deemed to be in violation of existing or future Indonesian regulations. Our VIE arrangements with Cakrawala and PT Innoform could be deemed in violation of existing Indonesia regulations on foreign investments in Indonesia. Indonesian Investment Law Number 25 of 2007, or the Indonesian Investment Law, prohibits the registered shareholder of a foreign investment company and a domestic investment company from entering into agreement and/or issuing a statement to confirm a nominee arrangement for shares ownership, whereby an individual or legal entity is holding shares in a company for and on behalf of another individual or legal entity, in a foreign investment company or domestic investment company. Such agreement and/or statement will be deemed as null and void. Since our contractual arrangements with Cakrawala and PT Innoform do not contain any statement that the current registered shareholders are acting on our behalf or that we are the owner of the shares in Cakrawala or PT Innoform, we believe that the contractual arrangements that we have entered into with Cakrawala and PT Innoform do not constitute nominee arrangements. However, should the Indonesian authorities deem the contractual arrangements that we have made with either Cakrawala or PT Innoform to constitute a nominee arrangement prohibited by the Indonesian Investment Law and declares such arrangement null and void, our interest in the investments held by Cakrawala and PT Innoform could be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected due to public concerns over the security and privacy of confidential user information. Our business may be adversely affected if the public concern over the security and privacy of confidential user information transmitted over the Internet and wireless networks is not adequately addressed and if significant breaches of network security or user privacy occur. A worsening of the outbreak of the H7N9 bird flu (avian influenza), any recurrence of the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, the H1N1 strain of swine influenza, the H5N1 or another strain of bird flu or another widespread public health problem could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In March and April 2013, an outbreak of the H7N9 strain of avian influenza has caused a number of human infections, including fatalities, in and around Shanghai, where our main offices in China are located, and other parts of China. Any worsening of the H7N9 outbreak or the outbreak of another strain of avian influenza such as H5N1, any renewed outbreak of SARS or the H1N1 strain of swine influenza or another widespread public health problem in China, where a material amount of our revenue is derived, could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, in the past there have been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in Indonesia, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Turkey and Cambodia and swine influenza in PRC, Japan, Korea and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in China or Indonesia, or other markets in which we operate, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: 25 · quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; and · a general slowdown in the Chinese or Indonesian economy or in any of the other markets where we operate directly or through strategic partnerships. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As we are a Cayman Islands company, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (as amended) of the Cayman Islands (the “Companies Law”) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in the federal court of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: · to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and · to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. A final and conclusive judgment in the federal or state courts of the United States under which a sum of money is payable, other than a sum payable in respect of taxes, fines, penalties or similar fiscal or revenue obligations and which was neither obtained in a manner nor is of a kind enforcement of which is contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands, may be subject to enforcement proceedings as a debt in the courts of the Cayman Islands under the common law doctrine of obligation. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a public company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN OUR INDUSTRY IN CHINA Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by the restructuring of the Chinese telecommunications industry. In an effort to promote greater competition among the telecommunications operators and foster the development of 3G mobile networks, on May 24, 2008, MIIT, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the PRC Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Reform of Telecommunications Systems, or the Telecom Notice, which was adopted to consolidate China’s previously existing telecommunication operators into three new telecommunications operators that can offer both mobile and fixed line services. 26 In accordance with the Telecom Notice, in 2008 China Railway Communication Co., Ltd., which operated a national fixed line network, merged into China Mobile, China Telecom acquired the Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) wireless business and network from China Unicom, and China Netcom, which was principally a fixed line operator, merged into China Unicom, which operates a Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) network and business. In January 2009, following the completion of this restructuring, the PRC government issued licenses to operate 3G mobile networks to China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. If we are unable to adapt our strategy successfully and maintain and enhance our relationships with the surviving operators, our competitive position in the market may be adversely affected. In particular, the launch of 3G mobile technologies could radically alter or even eliminate the market for SMS or 2.5G (including multimedia messaging services, or MMS, WAP and Java games), which are services with which we are more familiar. Having evaluated market opportunities for 3G services in China, we have recently started to offer 3G mobile games. As 3G or other standards develop in China, we may determine in the future to further expand our service offerings, which may not be successful given our limited experience in offering such services in China. The Chinese government or one or more of the operators may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that any of them believe is inappropriate. China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers, Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the Chinese government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. The operators in China also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by VAS providers and have punished certain providers for distributing content deemed by them to be obscene. Such punishments have included censoring of content, delays in payments of fees by the operators to the offending service provider, restrictions on the ability of the service provider to bill for its services and suspension of the service on the operators’ networks. Accordingly, even if we comply with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the Chinese government or one or more of the operators were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users, our revenue could be reduced and our reputation harmed. Telecommunication laws and regulations in China are evolving and subject to interpretation and may change in the future. If we are found to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Although VAS are subject to general regulations regarding telecommunication services, we believe that currently there are few Chinese laws at the national level specifically explicitly governing VAS, such as our services related to SMS, MMS, WAP and audio-related services. Many providers of VAS have obtained various VAS licenses. Although Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava and Lianyu have obtained inter-provincial VAS licenses issued by MIIT or its local counterpart, we cannot be certain that other local or national VAS license requirements will not be imposed or will not conflict with each other or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of this category of service. It is also possible that new national legislation might be adopted to regulate such services. If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations regarding VAS or Internet access which is discussed in the following risk factor, the relevant Chinese authorities have the power to, among other things: · levy fines and prohibit new product and service offerings; · confiscate our income or the income of our subsidiaries and affiliates; · revoke our business license or the business license of our subsidiaries and affiliates; · shut down our servers or the servers of our subsidiaries and affiliates and/or blocking any websites that we operate; and · require us to discontinue any portion or all of our VAS business. 27 The regulation of Internet website operators is also unclear in China, and our business could be adversely affected if we are deemed to have violated applicable laws and regulations. Our affiliates, Weilan and Yuan Hang, operate Internet websites in China, which are one of the channels through which our services are offered. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, MIIT, and the possibility of new laws, regulations or policy positions being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies with Internet operations including those of our company. In particular, MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various Chinese government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. On July 13, 2006, MIIT issued a notice with the purpose of increasing the regulation of foreign investment in and operations of VAS which includes Internet and telecommunications businesses in China. The regulations require Chinese entities (or shareholders of such Chinese entities) to own and control the Internet domain names and registered trademarks, and to have servers and other equipment used to host and operate websites and conduct business. The ownership requirements functionally limit foreign direct and indirect ownership and control of the intellectual property of these businesses even when attempted through various parallel control, licensing, use and management agreements. It is unclear whether these regulations will be strictly enforced or be reiterated by the government in future. The government has provided that the new regulations apply retroactively and requests that VAS operators self-audit under these regulations and hold themselves accountable to MIIT local offices. Failure to comply may cause MIIT to terminate a telecommunications license or otherwise modify existing agreements or require the disposition of the assets by the foreign entity. Any anticipated foreign investment in such businesses will be subject to prior approval by MIIT, and it is expected that approval for investment may not be easily obtained for foreign investment in these businesses unless in strict compliance with the requirements of MIIT. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the local Shanghai Municipal Telecommunications Administration Bureau and held by Weilan or any VAS license held by Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava and Lianyu will satisfy these requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable Chinese Internet regulations could subject us to severe penalties as noted in the prior risk factor. A slowdown in the Chinese economy may reduce our growth and profitability. In addition, we may be adversely affected by the possible “hard landing” of China’s economy in the future. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors, and the Chinese government has recently implemented various measures to slow economic growth in order to limit inflation. The Chinese economy overall affects our profitability as spending on VAS may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. More specifically, increased penetration of VAS in the less economically developed central and western provinces of China will depend on potential customers in those provinces achieving certain income levels so that mobile handsets and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Because a material portion of our operations are conducted in China, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected by any deterioration in China’s macroeconomic environment. There is a possibility that China’s economic growth rate may materially decline in the near future, which may have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. In the first quarter of 2009, China’s gross domestic product slowed to as low as 6.2%. A number of factors contributed to this slowdown, including appreciation of the RMB, which adversely affected China’s exports, and tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government aimed at preventing overheating of China’s economy and controlling China’s high level of inflation. The slowdown was further exacerbated by the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets that began in 2008 and the on−going European debt crisis, which have resulted and might continue to result in extreme volatility and dislocation of the global capital markets. Although the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product accelerated and reached 9.1% in 2011, the growth rate has since slowed down to 7.6% in the first half year of 2012 and 7.4% in the third quarter of 2012. In addition, China lowered the target growth rate for its gross domestic product to 7.5% for 2013. It is uncertain whether China’s current economic growth is sustainable and whether the slower growth that China’s economy experienced in 2009 could return in the near future. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis and potential rapid slowdown of China’s economic growth may impact our business in the short term and long term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by any ongoing global economic downturn or slowdown of China’s growth rate. Government regulation of the telecommunications, television and Internet industries may become more burdensome. Government regulation of the telecommunications, television and Internet industries is burdensome and may become more burdensome. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. 28 These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. In addition to new laws and regulations, existing laws not currently applicable to the VAS may be applied to those services in the future. Any changes to our tax incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our foreign ADS holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on their sales of our ADSs if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities enjoy tax exemptions and reduced tax rates, which increase our net income. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation.” The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax law, or the new EIT law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, generally provides grandfather treatment for companies entitled to preferential tax exemptions granted prior to such effective date but requires annual assessment for exemptions previously granted to high and new technology enterprises. The high and new technology enterprise status is valid for a period of three years from the date of issuance of the certificate and is subject to an annual self-review process whereby a form is submitted to relevant tax authority for approval to use a preferential income tax rate. If there are significant changes in the business operations, manufacturing technologies or other criteria that cause the enterprise to no longer meet the criteria as a high and new technology enterprise, such status will be terminated from the year of such change. Yuan Hang passed its assessment as a high and new technology enterprise in 2011 and is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Huitong renewed its status as a high and new technology enterprise in 2012 and is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Two of our affiliate entities, Cosmos and Beijing Ojava, enjoyed a preferential tax rate of 15% in 2009, 2010 and 2011 as high and new technology enterprises. In 2012, neither company qualified as a high and new technology enterprise and their applicable tax rate was 25%. Lian Fei did not qualify as a high and new technology enterprise due to not meeting the requirement for research and development activities, and its applicable tax rate in 2010, 2011 and 2012 was 25%. Letang qualified as a comic and animation enterprise in 2010 and was therefore entitled to a two year national and local tax exemption followed by three years of 50% reduction in national and local income tax rates. Our future results could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to maintain similar preferential tax treatment. The new EIT law provides that enterprises incorporated inside or outside of China with a “de facto management body” in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their global income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting and properties of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation further issued a notice entitled “Notice Regarding Recognizing Offshore-Established Enterprises Controlled by PRC Shareholders as Resident Enterprises Based on Their De Facto Management Body.” Under this notice, a foreign company controlled by a PRC company or a group of PRC companies shall be deemed as a PRC resident enterprise if (i) the senior management and the core management departments in charge of its daily operations mainly function in the PRC; (ii) its financial decisions and human resource decisions are subject to decisions or approvals of persons or institutions in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, minutes and files of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the directors or senior management personnel with voting rights reside in the PRC. Although our company is not controlled by any PRC company or a group of PRC companies, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed to be a “resident enterprise” of the PRC under the notice mentioned above or the new EIT law and thus not be subject to PRC enterprise income tax on our global income. In addition, under the implementation rules of the new EIT law, dividends paid to “non-resident enterprises” by “resident enterprises” on profits earned after January 1, 2008 are regarded as income from “sources within the PRC” and therefore subject to a 10.0% withholding income tax, while dividends on profits earned before January 1, 2008 are not subject to the withholding income tax. A lower withholding income tax rate of 5.0% is applied if the “non-resident enterprises” are registered in Hong Kong or other jurisdictions that have a favorable tax treaty arrangement with China. Nevertheless, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this early stage whether Circular 601 applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. It is possible that under Circular 601 our Hong Kong subsidiaries would not be considered to be the beneficial owners of any such dividends, and that, if such dividends are subject to withholding, such withholding rate would be 10% rather than the favorable 5% rate generally applicable under the tax treaty between mainland China and Hong Kong. Because we may be treated as a “resident enterprise,” any dividends paid to the corporate shareholders or shareholders appearing as corporate entities on the share registers of Linktone which are considered “non-resident enterprises” may be subject to withholding income tax and the value of the investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 29 Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee equity incentive plans may subject our PRC citizen employees or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. On March 28, 2007, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Share Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Share Option Rule. On February 15, 2012, SAFE issued the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Incentive Plan Rule, which replaced the Share Option Rule. Under the Stock Incentive Plan Rule, PRC citizens who are granted share options or other employee equity incentive awards by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a qualified PRC agent or a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share options or other employee equity incentive plans. Although we have registered our equity compensation plans with SAFE in accordance with these requirements, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our employees who are PRC citizens will continue to be able to satisfy the registration requirements under the Stock Incentive Plan Rule. In particular, if we and/or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with the provisions of the Stock Incentive Plan Rule or any other related law, rule or regulation issued by SAFE or other PRC government agencies in the future, we and/or our employees who are PRC citizens may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government agencies, as a result of which our business operations and equity compensation plans could be materially and adversely affected. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protection available to our investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 30 years has significantly enhanced the protection afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as a VAS license and requisite business licenses. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning in recent years to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. 30 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. Because a significant portion of our future revenue may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions and paying dividends, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Chinese regulations relating to foreign exchange and acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign entities may limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies and adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy as well as our business and business prospects. On October 21, 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund- raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Notice 75 replaced the previous SAFE regulations relating to acquiring of Chinese companies by foreign entities. Notice 75 requires each PRC resident, whether a natural or legal person, to complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in China. In addition, an amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed by any PRC resident that directly or indirectly holds interests in that offshore company upon either (1) the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore company, or (2) the completion of any overseas fund raising by such offshore company. An amendment to the registration is also required to be filed by such PRC resident when there is any material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore company. Moreover, Notice 75 applies retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in China in the past were required to complete the relevant overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures by March 31, 2006. To implement Notice 75, SAFE issued an implementation notice in May 2007, or Circular 106. Circular 106 specifies the circumstances under which PRC residents are required to comply with Notice 75 and the procedures of compliance. Under Circular 106, in the event a PRC resident failed to file for the relevant investment foreign exchange registration under Notice 75 by March 31, 2006 with respect to an overseas entity, any dividends remitted by the domestic subsidiary to such overseas entity since April 21, 2005 will be deemed as an evasion of foreign exchange purchase rules, making the remittance illegal. The domestic company and its actual controlling person(s) may also be fined. In addition, under Circular 106, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in Notice 75 and Circular 106 may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore company, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and SAFE jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and were amended in June 2009. The M&A Rules established, among other things, additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance when a foreign investor acquires equity or assets of a PRC domestic enterprise. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM or its local counterparts, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. The interpretation and implementation of the SAFE regulations and the M&A Rules vary from place to place, and it is presently uncertain how these variations and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions. Thus, we cannot predict how they will affect our business operations or future acquisition strategy. For example, our present and prospective Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency- denominated borrowings, may be conditioned upon compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such Chinese residents, over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such Chinese residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations because we have no control over the outcome of the registration procedures. 31 The failure by such Chinese residents to register with SAFE according to Notice 75 and Circular 106 may significantly limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us. Such uncertainties may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our auditor engages its network firm in China to audit our China entities. Because network firms in China are not permitted under Chinese law to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies whose shares are publicly traded in the United States, is registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. As a PCAOB registered firm, our auditor is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and relevant professional standards. Our auditor engages its network firms in China to audit our Chinese subsidiaries and variable interest entities, or VIEs, and China is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of the China-based affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of such network firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB inspections. In December 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings in the U.S. against the Chinese affiliates of five global accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, for their failure to respond to the SEC’s request to produce audit work papers and other documentation relating to certain U.S.-listed Chinese companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. We were not and are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the Chinese affiliates of the five global accounting firms. However, the Chinese affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC is one of the five accounting firms named in the SEC’s proceedings. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s proceedings, if the Chinese affiliates of the five global accounting firms are barred, temporarily or permanently, from practicing before the SEC, we may not be able to meet our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, which may ultimately result in our de-registration by the SEC and de-listing from NASDAQ. Furthermore, any negative news about the proceedings against the Chinese affiliates of the five global accounting firms may erode investor confidence in U.S.-listed companies operating in China , which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Our corporate structure could be deemed to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws and regulations which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. In order to meet China’s restrictions and requirements on foreign investment in telecommunications and Internet services in China, as of December 31, 2012, we maintained control over the following affiliated Chinese entities which are each owned by our current and/or former employees and are treated as our VIEs for accounting purposes: (i) Shanghai Weilan Computer Co., Ltd., or Weilan; (ii) Shanghai Unilink Company Ltd., or Unilink; (iii) Shenzhen Yuan Hang Technology Co., Ltd., or Yuan Hang; (iv) Beijing Cosmos Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Cosmos; (v) Hainan Zhong Tong Computer Network Co., Ltd., or Zhong Tong; (vi) Beijing Lian Fei Wireless Communication Technology Co., Ltd., or Lian Fei; (vii) Shanghai Qimingxing E-commerce Co., Ltd., or Qimingxing; (viii) Beijing Ojava Wireless Information Technology Co. Ltd., or Beijing Ojava; (ix) Zhong Qing Wei Lian Cultural Communication Co., Ltd., or Wei Lian; 32 (x) Beijing Lianyu Interactive Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Lianyu; (xi) Shanghai Ling Yu Cultural and Communication Co., Ltd., or Ling Yu; (xii) Shanghai Lang Yi Advertising Co., Ltd., or Lang Yi; (xiii) Beijing Xian Feng Li Liang Co., Ltd., or Xian Feng; (xiv) Letang; and (xv) Nanjing Xuanyou Cartoon Co., Ltd., or Xuanyou. Under the current shareholding structure, Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava and Lianyu have inter-provincial VAS licenses issued by MIIT, and they offer our services through one or more of the telecommunications network operators in China. Yuan Hang offers services related to our online game business. Xian Feng provides music and reading related content services to network operators. Ling Yu, Wei Lian and Lang Yi have been dormant since 2010. Letang and Xuanyou offer services related to our mobile games business. It is possible that the relevant Chinese authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion of or all of the existing or future ownership structure and businesses of us, any of our wholly owned subsidiaries, or any of our VIEs, violate existing or future Chinese laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the telecommunication or Internet sectors in China that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our, our wholly owned subsidiaries’ or our affiliated Chinese entities’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, these new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied. For example, on September 28, 2009, the General Administration of Press and Publication (GAPP), the National Copyright Administration and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly published the Notice Regarding the Consistent Implementation of the “Stipulations on ‘Three Provisions’ of the State Council and the Relevant Interpretations of the State Commission Office for Public Sector Reform and the Further Strengthening of the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Internet Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Internet Games”, or Circular 13. Circular 13 expressly prohibits foreign investors from participating in Internet game operating businesses via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments in China, and from controlling and participating in such businesses directly or indirectly through contractual or technical support arrangements. It is not clear yet as to whether other PRC government authorities, such as the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and MIIT, will support GAPP to enforce the prohibition of the VIE model that Circular 13 contemplates. If our current structure and our contractual arrangements were found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws and regulations, we may be required to restructure our structure and operations in China to comply with such Chinese laws. In such case, we may not be able to operate or control our business in the same manner as we currently do, and therefore, may not be able to consolidate our VIEs. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations which may adversely impact our financial statements, operations and cash flows (including the restriction on us to carry out the business). It is unclear how such restructuring could impact our business and operating results. We believe that our present operations are structured to comply with Chinese law. However, many Chinese regulations are subject to extensive interpretive powers of governmental agencies and commissions, and there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future Chinese laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that Chinese regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a contrary view to our belief and will not take action to prohibit or restrict our business activities. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities. The shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities may also be subject to penalties due to their failure to register the loans with the Chinese authorities, and the effectiveness of the loan agreements may be challenged as a result. As of December 31, 2012, we had provided long-term interest-free loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately RMB114.0 million to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities for the purpose of investing in our affiliated Chinese entities as registered capital and to make payments to the selling shareholders from whom we acquired certain of our affiliated Chinese entities for settlement of purchase price consideration pursuant to applicable acquisition agreements. The term of these loans in each case is 10 years, renewable at our sole discretion for a term of our choosing. The shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities can only repay the loans by transferring to us or our designees all of their equity interest in the respective affiliated Chinese entity. Please refer to the table under Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Arrangements with Consolidated Affiliates — China — Loan Agreements.” We expect that we will continue to be involved in and provide additional financial support in the future to the extent allowed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable laws. 33 Because of uncertainty associated with Chinese law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. Since the loan agreements were entered into between a foreign lender and Chinese borrowers, such loans are considered as “foreign debts” under Chinese law. As a result, the shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities, as the borrowers, are required to register the foreign debts with the competent foreign exchange authorities. However, none of the shareholders has completed the registration because, in practice, such registration is not open to individual borrowers. Without such registration, the effectiveness of the loan agreements may be challenged, and the shareholders may be subject to penalties including a fine of up to 30% of the loan amount in each case. Furthermore, since we are a foreign entity, the loans should be extended to the shareholders in a foreign currency rather than in RMB. As all the loans were extended to the shareholders by our subsidiaries in RMB rather than in a foreign currency, the loan arrangements could be deemed illegal foreign exchange swaps under Chinese law and the parties involved could be subject to certain foreign exchange liabilities. Any penalties imposed by the Chinese authorities due to the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We depend upon contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities for the success of our business. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we are restricted by the Chinese government from owning telecommunications and Internet operations in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, Weilan, Unilink, Yuan Hang, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava, Lianyu and Xian Feng, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements with the operators. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our affiliated Chinese entities could fail to take actions required to operate our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or service contracts with the operators in China. Moreover, the fees for our services are paid by the operators directly to our affiliated Chinese entities, which are then obligated at our request to transfer substantially all or some of such fees to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Shanghai Linktone Consulting Co., Ltd., or Linktone Consulting, Shanghai Huitong Information Co., Ltd., or Huitong, Shanghai Linktone Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Linktone Internet, Shanghai Linktone Software Co., Ltd., or Linktone Software, Wang You Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Wang You, Beijing Ruida Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Ruida, and Shanghai Xintong Information Technology Co., Ltd. or Xintong. If our affiliated Chinese entities fail to perform their obligations under these agreements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements and rely on legal remedies under Chinese laws. The Chinese laws, rules and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations involve substantial uncertainties. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, or suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and the financial position. For example, in the event that one of our Chinese VIEs fails to perform its obligations under our loan agreement with it, we may incur a loss on this loan or costs to enforce these arrangements. Contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities may cause a transfer pricing adjustment and may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment which may result in an increase in our taxes. In addition, if for any reason we need to cause the transfer of any of the shareholder’s shares in our affiliated Chinese entities to a different nominee shareholder (such as if, for example, any of such shareholders is no longer employed by us), we might be required to pay individual income tax, on behalf of the transferring shareholder, on any gain deemed to have been realized by such shareholder on such transfer. 