ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We are subject to significant competition. The level of competition is intense in each of the markets in which we compete, and we expect competition to increase. In particular, we compete with BT, BSkyB, Carphone Warehouse (Talk Talk), Freeview, Freesat, O2, Orange, T-Mobile, Tiscali, Vodafone and 3 UK, each of whom has significant operational scale, resources and national distribution capacity. We also compete with numerous internet service providers and indirect telephone access operators that offer fixed line telephone and broadband internet services over BT's network. We will face increasing competition from mobile telephone network providers and new market entrants, including those providing mobile broadband, VoIP and IPTV services. The increase in competition will be compounded by technological changes and business consolidation, which may permit more competitors to offer the "triple-play" of digital television, fixed line telephone and broadband services, or "quad-play" bundles including mobile telephone services. Our broadband service faces increased competition from BT, BSkyB, Carphone Warehouse (TalkTalk), O2, Orange, Tiscali and others. Competitors may use new alternative access technology such as advanced, faster asymmetric digital subscriber lines, or ADSL+2, to deliver higher speeds. In the digital television market, we compete primarily with BSkyB in providing digital pay television services. Competition increased as a result of the launch of Freeview, which provides over 40 digital terrestrial television channels on a free-to-air basis to consumers who have purchased a Freeview digital set-top box or digital television recorder. Top Up TV subsequently launched a pay television service offering approximately 120 programs from 19 channels for a fixed fee to subscribers who otherwise receive Freeview and have purchased a Top Up TV set-top box. In May 2008, Freesat launched HD channels, on a free-to-air basis to consumers who have purchased a Freesat digital receiver or digital television recorder. BT has also launched a personal computer download service of video-on-demand home entertainment content over a broadband connection called BT Vision. BSkyB, Tiscali and others offer a similar service. In the mobile telephony market, we face direct competition from mobile network operators such as O2, Orange, T-Mobile, Vodafone and 3 UK, and other mobile virtual network operators, such as Tesco Mobile, Carphone Warehouse and ASDA, in addition to fixed line telephone operators and internet telephony providers. Many of our competitors are part of large multinational groups, have substantial advertising and marketing budgets, have greater retail presence and may benefit from greater economies of scale than we do. As a mobile virtual network operator, our per unit economies may differ substantially from our competitors with their own networks, which may impact our ability to compete. Our fixed line telephony business competes with fixed line operators such as BT, telephone local loop unbundlers such as Carphone Warehouse (TalkTalk) and BSkyB, and several mobile telephone operators such as O2, Orange, T-Mobile, Vodafone and 3 UK. 26 Table of Contents Our business services also face a wide range of competitors, including BT, C&W and COLT Telecom, and a number of regional service providers. The nature of this competition varies depending on geography, service offerings and the size of the marketable area. In order to compete, we have had to reduce the prices we charge for our services or increase the value of our services without being able to recoup associated costs. Reduced prices or increased costs have had a negative impact on our margins and profitability and could continue to do so in the future. In addition, some of our competitors offer services that we are unable to offer. If we are unable to compete successfully, even following price reductions or value enhancements, we may not be able to attract new customers or retain existing customers. Failure to control customer churn may adversely affect our financial performance. The successful implementation of our business plan depends upon controlling customer churn. Customer churn is a measure of customers who stop using our services. Customer churn could increase as a result of: •the general reduction in the quality of our customer service, including billing errors; •customers moving to areas where we cannot offer our digital television, or DTV, services; •interruptions to the delivery of services to customers over our network and poor fault management; •the availability of competing services, some of which may, from time to time, be less expensive or technologically superior to those offered by us or offer content that we do not offer; •the potential loss of customers due to their required migration from our analog television, or ATV, services to our more expensive DTV services when we stop transmitting our ATV signal; and •the general deterioration in economic conditions that could lead to customers being unable or unwilling to pay for our services. An increase in customer churn can lead to slower customer growth and a reduction in revenue. If we do not maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner, we could lose customers. Maintaining an uninterrupted and high-quality service over our network infrastructure is critical to our ability to attract and retain customers. Providing a competitive service level will depend in part on our ability to maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner. The maintenance and upgrade of our networks will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: •modify network infrastructure for new products and services, including faster broadband speeds; •install and maintain cable and equipment; and •finance maintenance and upgrades. Our covenants in our senior credit facility effectively restrict our use of cash. If these covenants affect our ability to replace network assets at the end of their useful lives or if there is any reduction in our ability to perform necessary maintenance on network assets, our networks may have an increased failure rate, which is likely to lead to increased customer churn. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to implement our operational restructuring plan successfully and realize the anticipated benefits, and this could negatively affect our financial performance. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we commenced the implementation of a restructuring plan aimed at driving further improvements in our operational performance and eliminating inefficiencies in order to create a fully-integrated, customer-focused organization. The restructuring process could cause an interruption of, or loss of, momentum in the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties incurred in connection with the restructuring activity could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in our standards, controls, product offerings, level of customer service, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. The implementation of the plan will involve the incurrence of substantial operating and capital expenditures to achieve long term savings, including employee termination costs, lease and contract exit costs, purchases of fixed assets and other related expenses. Additional unanticipated costs may also be incurred. Although we expect that the elimination of costs, as well as the realization of efficiencies and other benefits related to the implementation of the plan, will offset the restructuring-related costs over time, this net benefit expected may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions, including the recent downturn in the financial markets. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by weakening global or domestic economic conditions, wavering consumer confidence, unemployment, tight credit and insurance markets, declines in global and domestic stock markets and other factors adversely affecting the global and domestic economy. In particular, the risks associated with certain segments of our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession. In our Content segment, a slowing economy could be accompanied by a decrease in advertising on our channels. Generally, expenditures by advertisers are sensitive to economic conditions and tend to decline in recessionary periods and other periods of uncertainty. In addition, unfavorable events in the economy, including a further deterioration in the credit and equity markets, could significantly affect consumer and business demand for our products, as consumers may delay purchasing decisions or reduce or reallocate their discretionary funds. Our Mobile segment may also be similarly affected by an economic slowdown as customers reduce their expenditures on mobile phones and usage. We are also exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers, suppliers, distributors and other third parties, many of whom may be adversely affected by the general economic downturn. Suppliers may also be more cautious in supplying goods to us and may request additional credit enhancements or more restrictive payment terms. While the impact of an economic slowdown on our business is difficult to predict, it could result in a decline in revenue and a decrease in our cash flows. We are licensed to use the Virgin name and logo but do not own it. In February 2007, we rebranded certain areas of our business as Virgin Media and renamed our corporate parent Virgin Media Inc. under a 30-year license agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited to use the Virgin name and logo. The use of the Virgin Media name and brand carries various risks, including the following: •we will be substantially reliant on the general goodwill of consumers towards the Virgin brand. Consequently, adverse publicity in relation to the Virgin Group or its principals, particularly Sir Richard Branson, who is closely associated with the brand, or in relation to another Virgin name licensee, could have a material adverse effect on our business; 28 Table of Contents •the license agreement has a 30-year term, and we are obligated to pay a termination payment if the license is terminated early under certain circumstances; and •we are required to meet certain customer service level requirements. These service level requirements, which are grouped into three key categories, include: (i) Base Service Levels which, in addition to ensuring that employees are fully-trained, competent, courteous and respectful, set basic standards against which to measure complaint handling, complaint levels and call center performance; (ii) Technical Service Levels which measure certain technical requirements that affect our customers' experience, such as service availability and service response times; and (iii) Aspirational Service Levels, which are levels of service that we and Virgin Group wish to achieve over time, to create new service measures and increase the demands on certain existing measures, covering a range of matters including customer satisfaction, customer advocacy, complaint levels, call center performance and staff satisfaction. A failure to meet our obligations under the license agreement could lead to a termination of the license. If we lose the right to use the Virgin brand, we would need to rebrand those areas of our business that have been rebranded, which could result in increased expenditures and increased customer churn. A failure in our critical systems could significantly disrupt our operations, which could reduce our customer base and result in lost revenues. Our business is dependent on many complex critical systems that support all of the various aspects of our cable network operations. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, malicious human acts, theft, natural disasters, fire, power loss, gas build-up, war or other catastrophes or any other threat to business continuity. Moreover, our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar problems. Unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause failures in our information technology systems, including systems that are critical for timely and accurate customer billing, or our customer service centers or interrupt the transmission of signals over our cable network. We do not currently have a formal company-wide disaster recovery plan, however, we are in the process of creating plans for key areas of risk in the business. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide service to our customers, prevent us from billing and collecting revenue due to us, or otherwise meet our business obligations in a timely manner, would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and revenue. We also maintain sensitive customer data on our systems and are subject to increasingly stringent regulation relating to privacy and information security. Any data breach or loss could result in significant costs, fines and reputational harm. Our inability to obtain popular programming, or to obtain it at a reasonable cost, could potentially have a material adverse affect on the number of customers or reduce margins. For the provision of television programs and channels distributed via our cable network, we enter into agreements with program providers, such as public and commercial broadcasters, or providers of pay or on-demand television. We have historically obtained a significant amount of our premium programming and some of our basic programming and pay-per-view sporting events from BSkyB, one of our main competitors in the television services business. BSkyB is a leading supplier of programming to pay television platforms in the U.K. and is the exclusive supplier of some programming, including its Sky Sports channels and Sky Movie channels, which are the most popular premium subscription sports and film channels, respectively, available in the U.K. We buy BSkyB wholesale premium content on the basis of BSkyB's rate card terms and pricing, which can be changed on 45 days' notice by BSkyB, and not under a long term supply contract. 29 Table of Contents In addition to providing programming to us, BSkyB competes with us by offering its programming directly to its digital satellite customers. As a result of BSkyB's ownership of this content, it is able to charge us a price for its content that makes it challenging for us to compete with BSkyB's own retail pricing and still maintain a profit margin on the sale of that premium programming. BSkyB also offers content, such as HD, some sports programming and interactive content, exclusively to its digital satellite customers and not to us. In addition to BSkyB, our significant programming suppliers include the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, Five, Viacom Inc., HBO, Discovery Communications Inc. and Turner, a division of Time Warner Inc. Our dependence on these suppliers for television programming could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide attractive programming at a reasonable cost. In addition, the loss of programs could negatively affect the quality and variety of the programming delivered to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and increase customer churn. Unauthorized access to our network could result in a loss of revenue. We rely on the integrity of our technology to ensure that our services are provided only to identifiable paying customers. The number of devices available in the U.K. which facilitate theft of our television and broadband service has increased. Unauthorized access to our network results in a loss of revenue, and failure to respond to security breaches could raise concerns under our agreements with content providers. We continue to work on controlling unauthorized access to our networks. The sectors in which we compete are subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, and the effect of technological changes on our businesses cannot be predicted. The broadband internet, television, fixed line telephone and mobile telephone services sectors are characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. Advances in current technologies, such as VoIP (over fixed and mobile technologies), mobile instant messaging, wireless fidelity, or WiFi, WiMax (i.e., the extension of local WiFi networks across greater distances) or internet protocol television, or future technological breakthroughs, may result in our core offerings becoming less competitive or render our existing products and services obsolete. We may not be able to develop new products and services at the same rate as our competitors or keep up with trends in the technology market as well as our competitors. The cost of implementing emerging and future technologies could be significant, and our ability to fund that implementation may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing. We depend on equipment and service suppliers that may discontinue their products or seek to charge us prices that are not competitive, either of which may adversely affect our business and profitability. We have important relationships with several suppliers of customer equipment, hardware, software and services that we use to operate our network and systems and transmit our services. We also outsource various customer services. In many cases, we have made substantial investments in the equipment or software of a particular supplier, making it difficult for us in the short term to change supply and maintenance relationships in the event that our initial supplier refuses to offer us favorable prices or ceases to produce equipment or provide the support that our network and systems require. We are also exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our suppliers, some of whom are being adversely affected by the global economic downturn. If equipment or service suppliers were to discontinue their products, seek to charge us prices that are not competitive or interrupt their provision of equipment or services to us as a result of bankruptcy or otherwise, our business and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we rely upon a number of outside contractors to install our equipment in customers' homes. Delays caused by these contractors, or quality issues concerning these contractors, could cause our customers to become dissatisfied and could produce additional churn or discourage potential new customers. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to currency and interest rate risks. We are subject to currency exchange rate risks because substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are paid in U.K. pounds sterling, but we pay interest and principal obligations with respect to a portion of our indebtedness in U.S. dollars and euros. To the extent that the pound sterling declines in value against the U.S. dollar and the euro, the effective cost of servicing our U.S. dollar and euro-denominated debt will be higher. Changes in the exchange rate result in foreign currency gains or losses. We are also subject to interest rate risks. Before taking into account the impact of current hedging arrangements, as of December 31, 2008, we would have had interest determined on a variable basis on £4,004.4 million, or 67.3%, of our long term debt. An increase in interest rates of 0.25% would increase unhedged gross interest expense by approximately £10.1 million per year. To manage these currency exchange and interest rate risks, we have entered into a number of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign currency forward rate contracts. We are required by our lenders under our senior credit facility to fix the interest rate (whether through coupon or through derivatives) on not less than two-thirds of the total debt represented by our senior credit facility and high yield notes, for a period of not less than three years from March 3, 2006. Accordingly, after giving effect to these hedges, an increase in interest rates of 0.25% would increase our gross interest expense by approximately £2.1 million per year. We also incur costs in U.S. dollars and euros in the ordinary course of our business, such as TV programming, customer premise equipment and network maintenance services and goods purchased for resale. Any deterioration in the value of the pound relative to the U.S. dollar or the euro increases the effective cost of purchases made in these currencies as some of these exposures are not hedged. We rely on third parties to distribute our Virgin Mobile products and procure customers for our services. Our ability to distribute Virgin Mobile products and services depends, to a large extent, on securing and maintaining agreements with a number of third party distributors who sell our branded handsets and service packs and prepay vouchers. These distributors also procure customers for our competitors and, in some cases, themselves. In particular, Carphone Warehouse also sells its own broadband and telephone services. They may also receive incentives to encourage potential customers to subscribe to our competitors' services rather than our own. They may at their discretion decide to cease to distribute our products and services. We are also exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our third party distributors, some of whom may be adversely affected by the general economic downturn. We also have no control over the number of stores that may be opened or closed in the future by any of our distribution partners. For example, in December 2008, one of our distribution partners, Zavvi, announced that it had entered into administration proceedings and is currently in the process of winding up its operations. While we are expanding our portfolio of Virgin Media branded retail outlets, which will off-set in part the reduction in third party distribution outlets, our stores may not perform successfully. In addition, if any of our other distribution partners were to close some or all of their operations, due to financial difficulties or otherwise, or if we fail to maintain our key distribution relationships, our revenue may decline. Regulatory change is an ongoing process in the markets in which we provide our services; changes in U.K. and EU regulations affecting the conduct of our business may have an adverse impact on our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. Our principal business activities are regulated and supervised by Ofcom and the U.K. Office of Fair Trading, among other regulators. Regulatory change is an ongoing process in the communications 31 Table of Contents sector at both the U.K. and the EU level. Regulatory changes relating to our activities and those of our competitors, such as changes relating to third party access to cable networks, the costs of interconnection with other networks or the prices of competing products and services, could adversely affect our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. In addition, our business and the industry in which we operate are subject to investigation by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Any such action could harm our reputation and result in increased costs to the business. There is no assurance that new products we may introduce will achieve full functionality or market acceptance. Our strategy requires that we roll-out new products and services, including, for example, the present roll-out of 50Mb broadband. We cannot guarantee that this new service, or any other new product or service that we may develop in the future, will perform as expected. Should these new products and services fail to perform as expected or should they fail to gain market acceptance, our results of operations may be negatively effected. We are subject to tax in more than one tax jurisdiction and our structure poses various tax risks. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and the U.K. Our effective tax rate and tax liability will be affected by a number of factors in addition to our operating results, including the amount of taxable income in particular jurisdictions, the tax rates in those jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions, the manner in which and extent to which we transfer funds to and repatriate funds from our subsidiaries, accounting standards and changes in accounting standards, and future changes in the law. As we operate in more than one tax jurisdiction and may therefore incur losses in one jurisdiction that cannot be offset against income earned in a different jurisdiction, we may pay income taxes in one jurisdiction for a particular period even though on an overall basis we incur a net loss for that period. We have a U.S. holding company structure in which substantially all of our operations are conducted in U.K. subsidiaries that are owned by one or more members of a U.S. holding company group. As a result, although we do not expect to have current U.K. tax liabilities on our operating earnings for at least the medium term, our operations may give rise to U.S. tax on "Subpart F" income generated by our U.K. subsidiaries, or on repatriations of cash from our U.K. operating subsidiaries to the U.S. holding company group. While we believe that we have substantial U.S. tax basis in some of our U.K. subsidiaries which may be available to avoid or reduce U.S. tax on repatriation of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will not seek to challenge the amount of that tax basis or that we will be able to utilize such basis under applicable tax law. As a result, although in accordance with applicable law we will seek to minimize our U.S. tax liability as well as our overall worldwide tax liability, we may incur U.S. tax liabilities with respect to repatriation of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries to the United States. The amount of the tax liability, if any, would depend upon a multitude of factors, including the amount of cash actually repatriated. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. From time to time we have made acquisitions, dispositions and have entered into other strategic transactions. In connection with such transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and suppliers, incur significant indebtedness, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions. These factors could harm our business and our reputation. 32 Table of Contents Revenue from our Content segment is highly dependent on subscriber fees and the television advertising market. Our Content segment owns pay channels through Virgin Media TV and our joint ventures with the BBC and derives its revenue primarily from subscriber fees and advertising revenue. BSkyB, our main competitor, is our largest customer for our programming. In early 2007, BSkyB used its dominant position in pay television to substantially reduce the fees it paid for our Virgin Media TV channels, although we entered into a new carriage agreement with BSkyB in November 2008 that increased the fees it is required to pay for our channels through to May 2011. As we are dependent upon carriage of our programming in order to attract advertising revenue, BSkyB has considerable power to dictate the fees that we charge for our programs. In addition, the TV advertising market has faced steady declines over the last few years, especially during the economic downturn. A failure to generate sufficient subscriber fees or advertising revenue would have a negative effect on our Content segment revenue and cash flow. Virgin Mobile relies on T-Mobile's network to carry its communications traffic. Virgin Mobile relies on its long term agreement with T-Mobile for voice, non-voice and other telecommunications services we provide our mobile customers, as well as for certain ancillary services such as pre-pay account management. If the agreement with T-Mobile is terminated, or if T-Mobile fails to deploy and maintain its network, or if T-Mobile fails to provide the services as required under our agreement with them and we are unable to find a replacement network operator on a timely and commercial basis, if at all, we could be prevented from carrying on our mobile business or, if we found a replacement operator, we may be able to carry on our mobile business only on less favorable terms or provide less desirable services. Additionally, any migration of all or some of our customer base to a new operator would be in part dependent on T-Mobile and could entail potential technical or commercial risk. T-Mobile is also a customer of our business division. Any disagreements between T-Mobile and Virgin Mobile may affect our other relationships with T-Mobile. We depend on the ability to attract and retain key personnel without whom we may not be able to manage our business lines effectively. We operate in a number of rapidly changing technologically advanced markets that will continue to challenge our business. There is significant competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, especially individuals with experience in the cable sector. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by our senior management would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business plan. Our future success is likely to depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Certain of our significant stockholders could have an influence over our business and affairs. Certain persons or entities are our significant stockholders. Based on SEC filings as of February 24, 2009, Fidelity Management & Research Company beneficially owns 14.9% of our issued and outstanding common stock, the Virgin Group beneficially owns 10.4%, Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC beneficially owns 9.2%, Wellington Management Company beneficially owns 8.6%, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. beneficially owns 6.9%, Capital World Investors beneficially owns 5.9% and Goldman Sachs Asset Management, LP beneficially owns 5.2%, of our issued and outstanding common stock. Each of these significant stockholders could have an influence over the business and affairs of our company. 33 Table of Contents On April 3, 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited which provides for us to use the Virgin name and logo in our consumer and content businesses. In connection with this agreement, Virgin Enterprises Limited had the right to propose a candidate to our Nominating Subcommittee to fill a single seat on our board. Virgin Enterprises Limited nominated Mr. Gordon McCallum, a director of Virgin Enterprises Limited, and he was appointed to our board on September 11, 2006. As a result of Mr. McCallum's relationship with Virgin Enterprises Limited, if conflicts between the interests of Virgin Enterprises Limited and the interests of our other stockholders should arise, this director may not be disinterested. Disruptions in Virgin Media TV's or sit-up's satellite transmissions could materially adversely affect their respective operations. Virgin Media TV and sit-up currently broadcast their digital programming content with leased satellite transponders, the operations of which are beyond the control of Virgin Media TV and sit-up. Disruption to one of these satellites would result in disruption to Virgin Media TV's or sit-up's programming and, depending upon the nature of that disruption, could result in a loss of revenues, a loss of customers and/or adverse publicity. In addition, the satellite transponders may fail before the expiration of Virgin Media TV's and sit-up's contractual right to utilize them, which may result in additional costs as alternative arrangements are made for satellite transmission. We do not insure the underground portion of our cable network and various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. We obtain insurance of the type and in the amounts that we believe are customary for similar companies. Consistent with this practice, we do not insure the underground portion of our cable network or various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. Almost all our cable network is constructed underground. As a result, any catastrophe that affects our underground cable network or our pavement-based electronics could prevent us from providing services to our customers and result in substantial uninsured losses. We have suffered losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill and long-lived intangible assets and could do so again in the future. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, or FAS 142, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). In addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Statement No. 144, Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, or FAS 144. On December 31, 2008, we had goodwill and intangible assets of £2.6 billion. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment charge being required. For example, in 2008, we recognized goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of £362.2 million with respect to our Mobile segment and £54.8 million with respect to our sit-up reporting unit included in our Content segment. Any downward revision in the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets has a material effect on our reported net earnings. We have limited capacity on our cable platform. Our analog television, digital television, broadband internet and video-on-demand services are transmitted through our core and access networks, which have limited capacity. We have plans in place to add additional capacity to our core and access networks. Until these plans are implemented, we are limited in the number of channels that can be transmitted as part of our digital television service and in our carriage of HD channels. While the planned conversion of the U.K. DTT platform from analogue 34 Table of Contents to digital technology will increase spectrum efficiency, thereby releasing capacity for new services, our current capacity limitations may affect our ability to carry new channels as they are developed. As such, our digital television offering may not be as competitive, which could result in an increase in customer churn and a decrease in revenue. Risks Relating to Our Financial Indebtedness and Structure We continue to face amortization pressures under our senior credit facility notwithstanding the recent amendments to our facility agreement, and we may not be able to refinance our debt obligations or may be able to refinance only on terms that will increase our cost of borrowing. Significant principal payments under our senior credit facility are due in 2010 and 2011. Under the recent amendment to our senior credit facility, the substantial portion of our scheduled repayments due in 2010 and 2011 will be deferred to 2012 if we make certain prepayments totaling £187 million no later than August 10, 2009 (assuming we exercise an extension option at a cost of £1.5 million). We anticipate using cash flow from operations and, if required, amounts undrawn on our revolving credit facility to satisfy the prepayment condition. If we were unable to meet the prepayment condition, then we would need to secure additional funding such as raising additional debt or equity, refinancing our existing facility, selling assets or using other means to service our amortization obligations. If we satisfy the prepayment condition, amortization payments of £204.3 million and £288.4 million will remain in 2010 and 2011, respectively. We expect to be able to address these payments through cash flow from operations and, if required, amounts then undrawn on our revolving credit facility. However, if we were unable to do so, then we would need to secure additional funding. We may not be able to obtain financing or sell assets, at all or on favorable terms, or we may be contractually prevented by the terms of our senior notes or our senior credit facility from incurring additional indebtedness or selling assets. Assuming the prepayment condition is satisfied, amortization payments of £3,209.7 million will be due in 2012. Since we do not expect to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make the 2012 payments, we expect to address them in advance thereof through a comprehensive refinancing of our senior debt. Our ability to implement such a refinancing successfully is significantly dependent on material improvements in the debt markets. Even if the debt markets improve, the size of the amounts outstanding under our senior credit facility may be too large to be refinanced with senior debt and we may need to raise additional capital by doing one or more of the following: •raising additional debt other than senior debt, such as high yield debt, on terms that may increase our cost of borrowing or result in more onerous terms; •selling or disposing of some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; or •issuing equity or equity-related instruments that will dilute the equity ownership interest of existing stockholders. We cannot be sure that any of, or any combination of, the above actions would be available or sufficient to fund our debt obligations or that we will be able to refinance our debt obligations on favorable terms. Our current leverage is substantial, which may have an adverse effect on our available cash flow, our ability to obtain additional financing if necessary in the future, our flexibility in reacting to competitive and technological changes and our operations. We had consolidated total long term debt of £6.3 billion as of December 31, 2008. This high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: •a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations will have to be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on existing indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; 35 Table of Contents •the ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; •our flexibility in reacting to competitive technological and other changes may be limited; •the substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or adverse developments in our business; and •we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We continue to incur losses and may not be profitable in the future. We had losses from continuing operations of £913.8 million in 2008, £463.5 million in 2007 and £509.2 million in 2006. We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain operating profits. Failure to achieve profitability could diminish our ability to sustain operations, meet financial covenants, obtain additional required funds and make required payments on present or future indebtedness. The covenants under our debt agreements place certain limitations on how we manage our business. The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain financial maintenance tests and restrictive covenants that limit the discretion of our management over various business matters. For example, the financial maintenance tests include liquidity, coverage and leverage ratios, and the restrictive covenants impact our ability to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make other distributions, or redeem or repurchase equity interests or subordinated obligations; •make investments; •sell assets, including the capital stock of subsidiaries; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions and certain vendor financing arrangements; •create liens; •enter into agreements that restrict some of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, transfer assets or make intercompany loans; •merge or consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and •enter into transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could materially adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. We may also incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable under our current indebtedness. We are a holding company dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Virgin Media Inc. and a number of its subsidiaries are holding companies with no independent operations or significant assets other than investments in their subsidiaries. Each of these holding companies depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. The terms of our senior credit facility and other indebtedness limit the payment of dividends, loan repayments and other distributions to or from these companies under many circumstances. Various agreements governing our debt may restrict and, in some cases, may also prohibit the ability of these 36 Table of Contents subsidiaries to move cash within their restricted group. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to further taxation. Applicable law may also limit the amounts that some of our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay as dividends or distributions on their equity interests, or even prevent such payments. The inability to transfer cash among entities within their respective consolidated groups may mean that even though the entities, in aggregate, may have sufficient resources to meet their obligations, they may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from one entity in their restricted group to another entity in their restricted group in order to make payments to the entity owing the obligations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility, which will continue. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets, and stock prices of highly levered companies, in particular, have been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to additional factors, many of which will be beyond our control. These factors include general economic and market conditions, such as a recession, market perception of refinancing risk, actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flow, our earnings releases and our competitors' earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets and the market for telecommunications stocks, changes in capital markets that affect the perceived availability of capital to communications companies, governmental legislation or regulation and rumors of private equity interest in our company. Trends in the telecommunications industry are likely to have a corresponding impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, in order to maintain the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ, we must remain in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, including but not limited to, minimum bid price requirements. If we are unable to comply with these rules, our common stock may be delisted from NASDAQ. Under the terms of our convertible senior notes, holders will be entitled to demand that we redeem their notes at par value or to tender their notes for conversion if we fail to maintain a listing of our common stock on NASDAQ or the New York Stock Exchange. NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the exchange until April 2009, and may extend this suspension based on then prevailing market conditions. In the event that our common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, the market for our common stock may be limited and it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares at an acceptable price, or at all. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any issuance by us of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the equity ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares of our common stock upon prior conversion of our convertible notes. Additionally, our convertible notes include anti-dilution and "make-whole" premium provisions that, if triggered, would result in an increase in the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes. Conversion of the convertible notes in circumstances where these provisions have operated could have a significantly greater dilutive effect. Sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants. 37 Table of Contents We may in the future seek to raise funds through equity offerings, which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. In the future, we may determine to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or our common stock. In any case, the result would ultimately be dilutive to our common stock by increasing the number of shares outstanding. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. We may not continue to pay dividends, and the failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. Until June 2006, we had not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We could determine not to continue to pay dividends on our common stock at the same level, or at all. In addition, the terms of our existing indebtedness limit the amount of dividends we can pay to stockholders from cash generated from operations if our debt leverage ratio is above certain levels. Sales of stock by stockholders in the company may decrease the price of the common stock. Based on SEC filings as of February 24, 2009, Fidelity Management & Research Company beneficially owns 14.9% of our issued and outstanding common stock, the Virgin Group beneficially owns 10.4%, Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC beneficially owns 9.2%, Wellington Management Company beneficially owns 8.6%, Ameriprise Financial, Inc. beneficially owns 6.9%, Capital World Investors beneficially owns 5.9% and Goldman Sachs Asset Management, LP beneficially owns 5.2%, of our issued and outstanding common stock. In addition, several of our significant stockholders are hedge funds, which often engage in aggressive trading strategies, such as short selling, and trade large volumes of securities opportunistically based on market conditions. In the current economic environment, hedge and other funds are also experiencing increased levels of redemption by their investors. Any significant sales of our stock held by these investors could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Some of our stockholders also have rights, subject to various conditions, to require the company to file one or more registration statements covering their shares, or to include their shares in registration statements that the company may file for itself or on behalf of other stockholders. Subsequent sales by any stockholders of a substantial amount of the company's common stock may significantly reduce the market price of the common stock of the company. Moreover, a perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of such common stock could depress the trading price of the company's common stock for a considerable period. Sales of the company's common stock, and the possibility of these sales, could make it more difficult for the company to sell equity, or equity related securities, in the future at a time, and price, that it considers appropriate. Provisions of our debt agreements, our stockholder rights plan, our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and our contracts could prevent or delay a change of control of us. We may, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase substantially all of our outstanding senior notes and convertible senior notes, and repay our outstanding indebtedness under our senior credit facility and other indebtedness. We or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes or repay that indebtedness in those circumstances. If we or any possible acquirer cannot repurchase those notes or repay our indebtedness under our senior credit facility and other indebtedness in the event of a change of control of us, the failure to do so would constitute an event of default under the agreements under which that indebtedness was incurred and could result in a cross-default under other indebtedness that does not have similar provisions. The threat of this could have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a 38 Table of Contents change of control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices, or otherwise which they may deem to be in their best interests. Our stockholder rights plan, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our ability to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to third parties without stockholder approval may have the effect, alone or in combination with each other, of preventing or making more difficult transactions involving a change of control of us. We are subject to the Delaware business combinations law that, subject to limited exceptions, prohibits some Delaware corporations from engaging in some business combinations or other transactions with any stockholder who owns 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired that interest. The terms of certain of our existing agreements relating to changes of control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 