D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Risks Related to Our Contractual Relationships with the Mobile and Fixed Line Operators in China We depend on the principal mobile and fixed line telecommunication network operators in China for delivery of our telecom value-added services, and the termination or alteration of our various contracts with any of them or their provincial or local affiliates could materially and adversely impact our business. We offer most of our telecom value-added services to users through three principal mobile phone and fixed line network operators in China, China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, and China Telecom Group, or China Telecom, which service substantially all of China’s approximately 747 million mobile phone subscribers at the end of December 2009. As of December 2009, China Mobile had approximately 522 million mobile subscribers, or 69.9% of the mobile phone service market in China, China Unicom had approximately 145 million mobile subscribers, or 19.4% of the mobile phone service market in China, and China Telecom had approximately 80 million mobile subscribers, or the remaining 10.7% of the mobile phone service market in China. Given their dominant market position, our negotiating leverage with China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom (referred to as the operators in this annual report) is limited. If our various contracts with any of the operators are terminated or adversely altered, it may be impossible to find appropriate replacement operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our services, and our business would be significantly impaired. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, we derived approximately 67.9%, 73.1% and 74.4%, respectively, of our total revenue from China Mobile and are, therefore, particularly dependent on that operator. 4 Table of Contents Our services are provided pursuant to contracts that we have with the national offices of the operators, as well as several of their provincial and local affiliates. Each of these contracts is non-exclusive, and has a limited term (generally one or two years). We usually renew these contracts or enter into new ones when the prior contracts expire, but on occasion the renewal or new contract can be delayed by periods of one month or more. The terms of these contracts vary, but the operators are generally entitled to terminate them in advance for a variety of reasons or, in some cases, for unspecified reasons at their discretion. For example, several of our contracts with the operators can be terminated if: • we fail to achieve performance standards which are established by the applicable operator from time to time, • we breach our obligations under the contracts, which include, in many cases, the obligation not to deliver content that violates the operator’s policies and applicable law, and exclusivity provisions prohibiting us from offering services which are the same as the services we provide to any other telecommunications service providers, • the operator receives high levels of customer complaints about our services, or • the operator sends us written notice that it wishes to terminate the contract at the end of the applicable notice period. Changes in the policies of the operators and in their enforcement of their policies have resulted in our company having to pay additional charges to the operators and have negatively affected our revenue. Further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue, profitability and financial condition in the future. The operators have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the telecom value-added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality. In addition, the operators have unilaterally changed the way such policies have been enforced as applied to third party service providers such as ourselves, and may do so again in the future. We often only become aware of such policy changes when the operators inform us orally or provide us with a monthly statement indicating an additional charge, which in either case can happen months after the operating problem in question arose. Because of this time delay, we cannot always confirm the existence of such problems or correct errors in our systems in a timely manner. In response to policy directives from China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MII (prior to the PRC government restructuring in March 2008, its predecessor, the Ministry of Information Industry), China Mobile and China Unicom introduced significant changes to their operating policies in the second half of 2006, including requiring double confirmations for new subscriptions and a requirement that a reminder be sent to existing monthly subscribers of their subscription and fee information and that inactive users be cancelled. In addition, in May 2007 China Mobile initiated a new policy under which all Wireless Application Protocol, or WAP, users are reminded of charges they may incur for WAP services. Changes in these policies have, among other things, enabled monthly subscribers to more easily reject our services. In 2008, in order to improve its oversight of service providers, China Mobile started to rank short messaging services, or SMS, and interactive voice response (known as “IVR”) service providers based on certain performance criteria, and those service providers that fall into a lower rank are subject to restrictions in service fees they may charge. These policy changes by the operators negatively affected our revenue and profitability from 2G, 2.5G and audio-related services in 2007, 2008 and 2009. 5 Table of Contents Moreover, in response to measures taken by MII, in November 2009 China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom implemented a series of measures targeting to eliminate offensive or unauthorized content, including pornographic content, on WAP sites in China, and suspended the ability of all of their third party WAP service providers, including our company, to charge for services, including services that do not contain offensive or unauthorized content. This suspension is still effective. Furthermore, in January 2010 China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom implemented additional measures in order to further improve user experience for mobile handset embedded services, including requiring additional notices to, and confirmations by, users before purchasing wireless value-added services that are embedded in mobile handsets, and requiring SMS short codes to be more tailored to the specific service offering or service partner (previously, a single SMS short code could be used for multiple service offerings or partners). We do not expect the measure on WAP services to materially adversely impact our revenue and profitability given that our revenue from WAP services has not been significant, but we expect the measures on mobile handset embedded services to negatively affect our revenue and profitability from data-related services in 2010. Because the operators’ policies may be subject to further changes and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to additional monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Our relationships with the operators could be adversely affected in the long-term if we are perceived to be providing consistently poor quality services or weak customer service. Any non-compliance with the operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial condition. Our business has been adversely affected and will continue to be adversely affected if the operators continue to expand their own portfolio of telecom value-added services that compete with our services. The principal mobile operators in China have traditionally offered a limited number of specific telecom value-added services, such as personal information management, instant messaging and mobile news. However, in the last several years, they have been increasing their offerings of telecom value-added services. For example, in July 2006, China Mobile introduced its own integrated music service platform by working directly with music companies to provide downloads of various songs and music. In May 2007, China Mobile also started to promote its own value-added services on the embedded menus of handsets customized for China Mobile. Our business has been affected by this trend and will be adversely affected further if any of the operators decides to further increase its own offerings of telecom value-added services to mobile and fixed line phone users which compete with our services. Moreover, we could be partially or fully denied access to their networks as the operators expand their service offerings. We depend on the operators to maintain accurate records and to pay us for services we provide. We depend on the operators to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and to pay us for services we provide. Specifically, the operators provide us with monthly statements that do not provide itemized information regarding which of our services are being paid for. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the operators cannot be reconciled to our own internal records for the reasons discussed below under “— Because the operators do not supply us with revenue and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of services by service type, and as a result, which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance.” In addition, we have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us in this regard because we do not have access to the operators’ internal records. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the operators miscalculate the revenue generated from our services and our portion of that revenue. 6 Table of Contents Our revenue and cost of services are affected by billing and transmission failures which are often beyond our control. We do not collect fees for our services from the operators in a number of circumstances, including if: • the delivery of our service to a customer is prevented because his or her phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has run out of value or the customer has ceased to be a customer of the applicable operator, • the operator experiences technical problems with its network that prevent the delivery of our services to the customer, • we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevent delivery of our services, or • the customer refuses to pay for our service due to quality or other problems. These situations are known in the industry as billing and transmission failures, and we do not recognize any revenue for services which are characterized as billing and transmission failures. Billing and transmission failures can significantly lower the revenue we record. We are also required to pay some of our content and distribution channel providers a percentage of the revenue received from or confirmed by the operators with respect to services incorporating the content providers’ products or distributed through their channels. In calculating the fees payable to these providers, we make estimates to take into account certain potential adjustments made by the operators which may have been applicable to the services incorporating the providers’ products, and reduce the fees payable by us accordingly. Nonetheless, as estimates involve making assumptions which may prove inaccurate, we have in the past paid, and may continue to pay, such providers fees which are disproportionate to what we have been paid for the relevant service. Because the operators do not supply us with revenue and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of services by service type, and as a result, which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance. The operators provide us with separate monthly statements for our SMS, 2.5G and audio-related services. However, the monthly statements of the operators with respect to each such service category do not contain revenue and billing and transmission failure information on a specific service-by-service basis. Although we maintain our own records reporting the services provided, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and cost of services by service type because we are unable to confirm which services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures. As a result, we are not able to definitively calculate and monitor service-by-service revenue, margins and other financial information, such as average revenue per user by service and total revenue per user by service, and also cannot definitively determine which of our services are or may be profitable. 7 Table of Contents The operators have begun charging us if their customers default in payment of our service fees and may also impose higher service or network fees on us if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria. Fees for our telecom value-added services are charged on a monthly subscription or per use basis. Based on our contractual arrangements, we rely on the operators for both billing of, and collection from, phone users of fees for our services. China Mobile generally charges us a service fee of 15.0% to 30.0% of the revenue generated by our services. China Unicom and China Telecom have implemented a sliding scale system whereby the percentage of gross revenue received by the service provider can range from 49.0% to 85.0% and 50.0% to 85.0%, respectively, depending on customer usage, revenue and other performance criteria. In 2009, we received on average 80.0%, 78.0% and 54.0%, respectively, of the gross revenue from China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. Moreover, to the extent that the number of messages sent by us over each operator’s network in most provinces, exceeds the number of messages our customers send to us, we must pay per message network fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of our services increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our users, for example, if a user sends us a single message to order a game but we in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that we will be able to satisfy these criteria in the future or that the operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. In 2007, the operators, through most of their provincial and local offices, began to charge us services fees and network fees even if a customer defaults in payment to the operators for our services. Our gross margins have been reduced as a result of these charges, and any future increase in the operator’s network fees and service charges will likely reduce our gross margins further. The operators may not authorize our services to be offered on their networks or restrict the service fees we may charge if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria imposed or revised by the operators at their discretion from time to time. The operators, through their provincial and local offices, have historically preferred to work only with a small group of the best performing telecom value-added service providers, based upon the uniqueness of the service offered by each provider, total number of users, usage and revenue generated in the applicable province or municipality, the rate of customer complaints, and marketing expenditures in the applicable province or municipality. If we fail to meet the then current performance criteria that the operators set from time to time, our services could be excluded from their networks at a provincial, municipal or national level, or we could be precluded from introducing new services or services with higher fees, which would adversely affect our revenue and growth prospects. In April and June 2008, China Mobile started to implement a quarterly credit and ranking for its SMS and IVR service providers, respectively, based on certain performance criteria, and those service providers that fall into a lower rank are subject to restrictions in service fees they may charge in the following quarters until the ranking improves. China Mobile may extend such ranking system to other services in the future. During 2008 and 2009, some of the telecom value-added services offered by our affiliated entities received lower ranks for certain quarters which reduced our revenue in those periods. If most of our affiliated entities fail to achieve a satisfactory ranking in the future, the service fees we may charge could be restricted, which would adversely affect our revenue and profit margin. 8 Table of Contents The services we offer and the prices we charge are subject to approval by the operators, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We must obtain approval from the operators with respect to each service that we propose to offer to their customers and the pricing for such service. In addition, any changes in the pricing of our existing services must be approved in advance by these operators. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, under all of our contracts with China Mobile and most of our contracts with China Unicom and China Telecom, we cannot change prices more than once every six months or charge prices outside of a fixed range. Failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our business. In addition, the operators’ more rigorous enforcement of their customer service policies in recent years may result in stricter scrutiny by the operators of our proposed services and pricing, which may in turn delay the approval process or result in disapproval of such proposed services or pricing. Additional Risks Related to Our Company We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business. We began commercially offering telecom value-added services in China in August 2000, and since that time, the technologies and services used in the telecom value-added services industry in China have developed rapidly. As a result of this rapid and continual change in the industry, you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development. These risks include our ability to: • attract and retain users for our telecom value-added services, especially for our 2.5G and audio-related services, and mobile online games which we expect to increase in 2010 following our acquisition of a 50.01% interest in Letang Game Limited, or Letang, a private Chinese company specializing in the development of mobile games and PC online games, in January 2010, • expand the content and services that we offer and, in particular, develop and aggregate innovative new content and service offerings, and sources of revenue which are not dependent on the operators, • procure effective distribution channels to promote our services, • respond effectively to rapidly evolving competitive and market dynamics and address the effects of mergers and acquisitions among our competitors, • maintain, expand and enhance our relationships with international media companies and other strategic partners and to generate meaningful returns from such partnerships, and • increase awareness of our brand and user loyalty. Due to these factors, there can be no certainty that we will maintain or increase our current share of the highly competitive market in which we operate. 9 Table of Contents The success of some of our services is significantly dependent on our ability to obtain, customize and localize desirable content and technology from third parties and distribute our services effectively. We are increasingly obtaining much of our telecom value-added services content, including wireless games, logos, music, news and other content such as popular radio or television programs, from third parties. Furthermore, we expect that we will license technology in connection with our development of next generation services. As the market for telecom value-added services develops, content and technology providers and distribution channel providers have increased their profits from these distribution and localization arrangements by demanding a greater share of revenue or other fees, which has adversely affected our financial performance, including adversely affecting our revenue from 2.5G services in 2009 and our gross margins in 2008 and 2009. Many of our arrangements with content and technology providers as well as distribution channel providers are non-exclusive, short-term and subject to renewal. If our competitors are able to provide or distribute such content in a similar or superior manner or to license the same technologies, it could adversely affect the popularity of our services and our negotiating leverage with third party providers. In addition, lack of effective distribution channels has adversely affected our revenue from 2.5G services in 2009. In addition, we must often invest significant resources in customizing and localizing the content and applications we license or purchase for the Chinese telecom market or we are authorized to use. This may include work ranging from translating the content or application interface into Chinese to performing significant development work to utilize the particular content or application. If we fail to establish and maintain economically attractive relationships with content, technology and distribution channel providers or to thereafter successfully customize and localize any third party content or technology, we may not be able to attract and retain users or maintain or improve our financial performance. We recognize revenue for our services on an accrual basis which involves the use of estimates of monthly revenue to the extent we are unable to obtain actual figures from the operators before we finalize our financial statements. This could in turn require us to make adjustments to our financial statements and cause delay in the announcement of our quarterly earnings. We recognize revenue earned on an accrual basis and plan to do so in future quarters, if necessary, in order to report our earnings on a timely basis. This involves the use of estimates of monthly revenue based on our internal records for the month and monthly confirmation rates with the operators in prior months if we are unable to obtain actual figures from the operators before we finalize our financial statements. Actual revenue may differ from prior estimates when unexpected variations in billing and transmission failures occur. Recognizing revenue on an accrual basis could potentially require us to later make adjustments to our financial statements if the operators’ billing statements and cash payments are different from our estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation and the price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs. To minimize the amount of gross revenue which we recognize based on such estimates, we will typically delay announcing our quarterly and year-end financial results until we have received substantially all of the monthly confirmations from the operators. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, approximately 1.3%, 2.5% and 1.0%, respectively, of our gross revenue were based on such estimates. However, this approach requires us to announce our financial results after a relatively extended period following each period-end which could create uncertainty in the market for our ADSs and adversely affect their price. Starting from April 2007, China Unicom affiliates in all provinces have lengthened their time of confirming actual revenue figures to service providers by another four months. These factors in turn tend to increase the portion of our revenue that we must estimate for a given quarter. 10 Table of Contents We face intense competition. The Chinese market for telecom value-added services is intensely competitive, and is changing rapidly. We compete principally with three groups of telecom value-added service providers in China: • dedicated service providers similar to Linktone whose business focus is to offer a variety of telecom content directly to mobile and fixed-line phone users, • the national Internet portal operators in China, which offer Internet access and content aggregation services on a nationwide basis in addition to telecom services, and • niche service providers, which focus primarily on a particular market segment or application that often builds on a pre-existing sector competency. In addition, with China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom increasing their offerings of telecom value-added services, they also present competition to our business. We have faced competition from service providers in the three groups described above since our entry into this market. We may also face significant competition from other parties, including the operators and companies which offer online services and are expanding to various degrees into telecom value-added services, such as Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited, which acquired a controlling stake in one of our competitors, Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd., in 2009, and Focus Media Holding Limited, which primarily focus on Internet-based games and media services, respectively, but have also begun to offer wireless games and services. Moreover, entry barriers are relatively low for new competitors in the telecom value-added services market, particularly for 2G services. Several of our competitors have longer operating histories in China, greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and databases, significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and superior access to original content than we have. As a result, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenue. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from the relatively wealthier coastal and southern provinces in China, and the termination or alteration of our contracts with the operators or a general economic downturn in those areas could have a particularly adverse effect on our business. Per capita income levels and mobile phone penetration rates (i.e., the number of mobile subscribers divided by the population of China) in China are generally higher in the coastal and southern provinces, such as Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning, and Zhejiang provinces, as well as the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing, which are among our top revenue generating locales. Some of our contracts are with the operators’ parent companies and are nationwide, while other contracts are with the respective affiliates of the operators in various provinces and municipalities. As noted above, there are numerous, often highly-subjective bases on which the operators have the right to terminate our contracts with them. Moreover, some of our nationwide contracts or contracts with affiliates of China Mobile for Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning and Zhejiang provinces and the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing can be terminated at the discretion of either contracting party upon 15 to 30 days notice, depending on the contract. If these contracts are terminated or adversely altered or there is a general economic downturn in those areas, our business could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether there will be a termination of our contracts with affiliates of the operators in significant provinces in the future. 11 Table of Contents We have incurred net losses for a significant portion of our history. We incurred significant net losses until the first quarter of 2003 and began incurring net losses again in the first quarter of 2007 until the fourth quarter of 2008 during which time we were implementing our cross-media strategy which involved significant expenses. We also incurred a net loss for the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily as a result of an impairment provision related to the goodwill for our casual game business. We could incur significant net losses in the future due to changes in the market, operating environment and competitive dynamics and our ability to respond to those changes, as well as any possible new strategic initiatives launched by our company. If we do not sustain profitability, the market price of our ADSs may decline. We have been required to record charges to earnings because the value of certain of our assets was deemed to have been impaired, and we may record such charges in future periods. We are required by U.S. GAAP to review our receivables, short-term investments, intangible assets, goodwill and other assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded impairment charges of $5.1 million related to an investment deposit, goodwill and other receivables. For the year ended December 31, 2008, in addition to impairment charges for some of the assets of our discontinued operations, we recorded an other-than-temporary loss on investments of $1.5 million related to our investment in a pooled investment fund, which is included under short-term investments in our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 contained in our consolidated financial statements in this annual report. We also recorded an impairment charge of $2.5 million in 2009 related to the goodwill for our casual game business, which was caused by a downward revision in expected future cash flow for that business resulting from market competition. Please refer to Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations” and “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We may be required to record similar impairment charges in the future if we determine that the value of our assets is impaired. We may face increasing risks relating to conducting business internationally. Although to date we have generated substantially all of our revenue within the PRC, we are in the process of implementing our long-term strategy to enter other markets in Asia to expand our geographic coverage and our range of product and service offerings. For example, in 2009, we recorded revenue of $0.7 million from providing telecom value-added services, or VAS, related market and technical services in Indonesia to an affiliate of PT Media Nusantara Citra Tbk, or MNC, our controlling shareholder. MNC, its subsidiaries and affiliates are hereinafter collectively referred to as MNC Group. In addition, we established an exclusive multi-year partnership with MLB Advanced Media, L.P., or MLBAM, the interactive media and Internet company of U.S. Major League Baseball, or MLB, in September 2009. Under the terms of the agreement, we became the exclusive licensee of certain MLB-related interactive media rights in China (including Hong Kong and Macau), South Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines. Such partnership was restructured in April 2010, and as a result, a third party, Allied Pacific Sports Baseball Network Limited, or Allied Pacific, in which we hold a direct 45% equity interest and an indirect interest through our 30% equity interest in such party’s other shareholder became MLBAM’s licensee and the licensed territory was expanded to include Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam. We are in the process of entering into an agreement with Allied Pacific to distribute MLBAM content via VAS in China. We are also continuously looking for opportunities to leverage the extensive media resources and relationships with content providers of MNC. As part of this initiative, we and MNC 12 Table of Contents (through its wholly owned subsidiary, MNC International Middle East Limited, or MIMEL) acquired 50% and 25% of the share capital of InnoForm Group, or InnoForm, in March 2010, respectively. In June 2010, we subscribed for additional new shares of InnoForm and as a result of which we and MNC (through MIMEL) hold 75% and 12.5% of the equity interest of InnoForm, respectively. InnoForm is a Singapore-based company with regional offices in Malaysia, Taiwan and Hong Kong, specializing in the development, distribution and licensing of edutainment and entertainment products. In addition, in June 2010 we purchased mandatory convertible bonds issued by PT Inti Idaman Nusantara, or IDN, from Starlight Ltd., or Starlight, a company incorporated under the laws of United Arab Emirates and the bond holder of IDN which is a variable interest entity of MNC Group, that will be converted into new shares of IDN representing 51% of its outstanding share capital for a total consideration of $13.2 million. The bonds are interest free and will be converted into shares of IDN upon IDN’s completion of its status into a foreign capital invested company as required by the relevant Indonesian laws and regulations. IDN, an Indonesian company, specializes in providing VAS services in Indonesia. We paid 65% of the total consideration in cash upon the closing of the transaction in June 2010 and will pay the remaining 27.5% of the total consideration six months after the closing date and 7.5% of the total consideration 12 months after the closing date. The purpose of the acquisition was in line with our expansion strategy in the region. We have very limited experience, however, operating in markets outside of China and in managing non-VAS businesses. These initiatives may cause us to become increasingly subject to various risks relating to conducting business abroad, including: • political and economic instability in countries where we offer our products and services; • different user preferences and usage habits with respect to telecom value-added and other services in other markets; • legal or regulatory restrictions; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable because of distance and different legal rules. Our future growth and profitability may be materially and adversely affected if we cannot adequately manage these and any other risks which arise in connection with our international expansion. We may also be subject to impairment charges if the value of any of our overseas investments declines, as discussed in the foregoing risk factor. 13 Table of Contents Our acquisitions or ventures with strategic partners may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We have made acquisitions and formed strategic alliances in the past. Some of the companies we acquired have not performed as well as we expected, and required significant further capital input and attention from our management. We also terminated or restructured certain strategic alliances. For example, in 2007, we terminated an investment agreement with eChinaCash, Inc., or ECC, to form a joint venture to establish a platform to provide VAS to users of ECC customer loyalty affinity and payment card programs which resulted in our incurring a net loss of $2.5 million. We also terminated our exclusive advertising arrangements with Qinghai Satellite Television, or QTV, and Tianjin Satellite Television, or TJSTV, in July and September 2008, respectively, which resulted in our incurring a net loss from discontinued operations of $20.8 million in 2008. We restructured our partnership arrangements with MLBAM in April 2010 as described in the foregoing risk factor. Nevertheless, if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may continue to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products or enter into strategic alliances which are complementary to our core telecom value-added services business in the future, but may also present similar challenges. For example, we acquired a controlling interest in Letang in January 2010, we and MNC (through MIMEL) also acquired in the aggregate 87.5% of the share capital of InnoForm in March 2010 and June 2010, and in June 2010 we also acquired mandatory convertible bonds that will be converted into new shares of IDN representing 51% of its outstanding share capital, as described above. The requirement for significant further capital input and the diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Acquisitions or strategic alliances expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new operations, services and personnel, ensuring effective internal controls with respect to acquired or new businesses, the extent to which acquired or new businesses give rise to unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions or strategic alliances and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and content providers as a result of integration of new businesses. Given the sophisticated technologies used in the telecom value-added services industry, the successful, cost-effective integration of other businesses’ technology platforms and services into our own is also a critical, and highly complex, aspect of any acquisition or strategic alliance. If we are unable to successfully enter into and implement acquisitions or strategic alliances in future periods, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continuing service of our key executives, particularly Hary Tanoesoedibjo, our Chief Executive Officer, and Colin Sung, our Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officer. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. For example, our revenue in the third quarter of 2009 was somewhat adversely affected by the resignations of our then current chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief operating officer, as well as certain staff in our VAS business upon whom we relied as described below. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers. We also rely on a number of key technology and product development staff for the operation of our company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology and product development staff leaving our company is high and could disrupt our operations. 14 Table of Contents We may need additional capital and may not be able to obtain such capital on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, it may result in operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations and/or additional dilution to our shareholders. It is difficult to plan for capital requirements in our rapidly changing industry. We may need additional capital for our future acquisitions, service development, technological infrastructure and sales and marketing activities. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, securities of telecommunications value-added services companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulations of foreign investment in value-added telecommunications companies; • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. If our current sources are insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may seek to obtain a credit facility or sell additional equity or debt securities. If we fail to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all, such failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we may not be able to carry out parts of our future growth strategy to acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing business or necessary to maintain our growth and competitiveness. Even if we are able to obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, the incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that would restrict operations. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to shareholders. Business growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As our user base increases, we will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, customer service and sales and marketing which are important to our future success. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services and our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. For example, any such performance issue could prompt the operators to cease offering our services over their networks. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • develop and quickly introduce new services, adapt our existing services and maintain and improve the quality of all of our services, particularly as new mobile technologies such as 3G are introduced; • effectively maintain our relationships with the operators and our other partners such as Letang, a mobile and PC online game developer in which we acquired a 50.01% interest in January 2010, InnoForm, a developer, distributor and licensor of edutainment and entertainment products in which we and our controlling shareholder, MNC (through MIMEL), acquired in the aggregate an 87.5% interest in March 2010 and June 2010, and IDN, a VAS service provider in Indonesia in which we acquired in June 2010 mandatory convertible bonds that will be converted into new shares of IDN representing 51% of its outstanding share capital; 15 Table of Contents • expand the percentage of our revenue which are recurring and are derived from monthly subscription based services; • develop sources of revenue which are not dependent on the operators; • enter into and maintain relationships with desirable content providers; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management, some of whom have been with our company for less than one year; • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls; and • maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Any failure of the mobile telecommunications network, the Internet or our technology platform may reduce use of our services. Both the continual accessibility of the networks of the operators in China and the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure are critical to our ability to attract and retain users. Moreover, our business depends on our ability to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. The servers which constitute the principal system hardware for our operations are located in six locations in Beijing. We maintain backup system hardware in our offices in Shanghai and Beijing, but cannot be certain such backup will be adequate if there are problems with our primary system hardware. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures caused by sustained power shutdowns, floods or fire causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware equipment, or other events outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of the mobile networks, the Internet or our technology platform, could adversely impact our ability to provide our services to users and decrease our revenue. If our exclusive providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services or increase their prices, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on affiliates of the operators to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for our services pursuant to contracts which have one-year terms. If any of the operators or their respective affiliates fails to provide such services, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to find a substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by the operators or their respective affiliates. If any of the operators or their respective affiliates fails to provide these services or raise their prices, our business could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We have been generating declining levels of revenue from our media advertising. We sell and market our services through, among other things, media advertising. Our media advertising is typically in the form of television commercials and magazine, newspaper and website placements. Fee rates for our various marketing channels have become increasingly expensive while in most cases generating lower levels of gross revenue and thus negatively affecting our profit margin. We scaled down our spending on media advertising in 2008 and 2009 due to this declining rate of return. Our net income could continue to be negatively affected in future periods if we are not able to effectively manage advertising expenses and maximize the gross revenue we generate from such advertising. In addition, if we continue to curtail or cease our spending on media advertising in the future, we may not have other more attractive or cost-efficient methods to promote our services, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our corporate structure could be deemed to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws and regulations which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. In connection with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, foreign investment in telecommunications and Internet services in China was liberalized to allow for up to 30.0% foreign ownership in value-added telecom and Internet services in 2002, 49.0% in 2003 and 50.0% thereafter. In order to meet these ownership requirements, as of December 31, 2009, we maintained control over the following affiliated Chinese entities which are each owned by our current and/or former employees and are treated as our variable interest entities, or VIEs, for accounting purposes: (i) Shanghai Weilan Computer Co., Ltd., or Weilan; (ii) Shanghai Unilink Company Ltd., or Unilink; (iii) Shenzhen Yuan Hang Technology Co., Ltd., or Yuan Hang; (iv) Beijing Cosmos Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Cosmos; (v) Hainan Zhong Tong Computer Network Co., Ltd., or Zhong Tong; (vi) Beijing Lian Fei Wireless Communication Technology Co., Ltd., or Lian Fei; (vii) Shanghai Qimingxing E-commerce Co., Ltd., or Qimingxing; (viii) Beijing Ojava Wireless Information Technology Co. Ltd., or Beijing Ojava; (ix) Zhong Qing Wei Lian Cultural Communication Co., Ltd., or Wei Lian; (x) Beijing Lianyu Interactive Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Lianyu; (xi) Shanghai Ling Yu Cultural and Communication Co., Ltd., or Ling Yu; (xii) Shanghai Lang Yi Advertising Co., Ltd., or Lang Yi; and (xiii) Beijing Xian Feng Li Liang Co., Ltd., or Xian Feng. Under the current shareholding structure, Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava and Lianyu have inter-provincial value-added telecommunication services licenses issued by the MII, and they offer our services through one or more of the telecommunications network operators in China. Yuan Hang offers services related to our online game business. Xian Feng provides music related content services to network operators. Ling Yu, Wei Lian and Lang Yi were dormant in 2009. It is possible that the relevant Chinese authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion of or all of the existing or future ownership structure and businesses of us, any of our wholly owned subsidiaries, or any of our VIEs, violate existing or future Chinese laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the telecommunication or Internet sectors in China that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our, our wholly owned subsidiaries’ or our affiliated Chinese entities’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, these new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied. For example, on September 28, 2009, GAPP, the National Copyright Administration and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly published the Notice Regarding the Consistent Implementation of the “Stipulations on ‘Three Provisions’ of the State Council and the Relevant Interpretations of the State Commission Office for Public Sector Reform and the Further Strengthening of the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Internet Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Internet Games”, or Circular 13. Circular 13 expressly prohibits foreign investors from participating in Internet game operating businesses via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments in China, and from controlling and participating in such businesses directly or indirectly through contractual or technical support arrangements. It is not clear yet as to whether other PRC government authorities, such as MOFCOM and MII, will support GAPP to enforce the prohibition of the VIE model that Circular 13 contemplates. In any such case, we could be required to restructure our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to collect long-term loans to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities. As of December 31, 2009, we had provided long-term interest free loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately RMB114.0 million to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities for the purpose of investing in our affiliated Chinese entities as registered capital and to make payments to the selling shareholders from whom we acquired certain of our affiliated Chinese entities for settlement of purchase price consideration pursuant to applicable acquisition agreements. The term of these loans in each case is 10 years. The shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities can only repay the loans by transferring to us or our designees all of their equity interest in the respective affiliated Chinese entity. Please refer to the table under Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects —Arrangements with Consolidated Affiliates — Loan Agreements.” We expect that we will continue to be involved in and provide additional financial support in the future to the extent allowed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable laws. Because of uncertainty associated with Chinese law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. We depend upon contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities for the success of our business. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we are restricted by the Chinese government from owning telecommunications and Internet operations in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, Weilan, Unilink, Yuan Hang, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava, Lianyu and Xian Feng in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements with the operators. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our affiliated Chinese entities could fail to take actions required to operate our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or service contracts with the operators in China. Moreover, the fees for our services are paid by the operators directly to our affiliated Chinese entities, which are then obligated at our request to transfer substantially all or some of such fees to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Shanghai Linktone Consulting Co., Ltd., or Linktone Consulting, Shanghai Huitong Information Co., Ltd., or Huitong, Shanghai Linktone Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Linktone Internet, Shanghai Linktone Software Co., Ltd., or Linktone Software, Wang You Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Wang You, Beijing Ruida Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Ruida, and Shanghai Xintong Information Technology Co., Ltd. or Xintong. If our affiliated Chinese entities fail to perform their obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot assure you would be effective or sufficient. Contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities may cause a transfer pricing adjustment and may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment which may result in an increase in our taxes. In addition, if for any reason we need to cause the transfer of any of the shareholder’s shares in our affiliated Chinese entities to a different nominee shareholder (such as if, for example, any of such shareholders is no longer employed by us), we might be required to pay individual income tax, on behalf of the transferring shareholder, on any gain deemed to have been realized by such shareholder on such transfer. 18 Table of Contents We generate our internal funds almost exclusively from our subsidiaries. If those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, we may lose almost all of our internal source of funds. We are a holding company with assets consisting primarily of cash generated from our initial public offering in March 2004 and issuance of new shares to MNC in April 2008, and our equity interests in Noveltech Enterprises Limited, or Noveltech, and Linktone Media Limited, or Linktone Media, both of which were incorporated in Hong Kong. See Item 4. “Information on the Company — History and Development of the Company.” Our internal source of funds has been derived almost exclusively from dividend payments from those entities after they receive dividends and payments from our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities. We are likely to lose all of our sources of funds if those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, except for interest and dividend we earned on our fixed deposits and short-term investments which totaled $1.2 million in 2007, $1.5 million in 2008 and $0.5 million in 2009. See also “— Any changes to our tax incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our foreign ADS holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on their sales of our ADSs if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise”” below. Under Chinese law, Linktone Consulting, Huitong, Linktone Internet, Xintong, Wang You, Linktone Software and Ruida are required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are established to offset losses and for other general purposes under Chinese law and they are not distributable as cash dividends. If further restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiaries are implemented under Chinese law, our revenue could decrease significantly. If any of our subsidiaries incurs any debt, it could impact our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and harm our reputation. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect our systems against the threat of such computer viruses and hacking and to rectify any damage to our systems. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking which affects our systems is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. 19 Table of Contents Our revenue fluctuates significantly and may adversely impact the trading price of our ADSs or any other securities which become publicly traded. Our revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control such as the changes in the policies of the operators and the enforcement of these policies. Steady revenue and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: • attract and retain users in the increasingly competitive telecom value-added services market in China, • successfully implement our business strategies, and • update and develop our services, technologies and content, including aggregating, customizing and localizing third party technologies and content for the China market and other Asian markets we are entering. Because the telecom value-added services industry in China is rapidly evolving and our business is also relatively new, including in particular our strategy to enter other markets in Asia, and has experienced significant volatility in terms of financial results as a result of the factors stated above, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. We may be held liable for information displayed on or retrieved from our service offerings. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are provided via our telecom value-added services. For example, we could be subject to defamation claims for messages posted on our services that allow chatting, or SMS news updates sent to users by us could possibly be deemed to contain state secrets in violation of applicable Chinese law. In addition, third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on information distributed by us. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have registered 107 trademarks with China’s Trademark Office and one trademark in each of Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. We are in the process of applying for 34 additional trademarks in China. We have also obtained 27 copyright certificates in China for certain cartoons and images and 37 copyright certificates for computer software. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate and effective to prevent infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in China where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. For example, competitors could copy one or more of our downloadable icons, and we may not become aware of the infringement in a timely manner or at all or be able to take effective action to enforce our rights. 20 Table of Contents From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. Prolonged disruptions to the global credit and capital markets and the global economy may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial conditions, prospects and future expansion plans. Since the second half of 2008, global credit and capital markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, have experienced generally difficult conditions. These challenging market conditions have resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads, lack of price transparency in credit markets, a reduction in available financing and lack of market confidence. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment in the United States and elsewhere in the world, have precipitated a global economic slowdown, including a slowdown in the rate of economic growth in recent quarters in China. Given the dramatic change in the overall credit environment and economy, it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and the extent to which we may be affected. The uncertainty and volatility of credit and capital markets and the overall economy has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that measures implemented by governments around the world to stabilize the credit and capital markets and new financial and economic policies, rules and regulations in jurisdictions where we operate will improve market confidence and the overall credit environment and economy. As a result, prolonged disruptions to the global credit and capital markets and the global economy may materially and adversely affect the Chinese economy, consumer spending in China and our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospect and future expansion plans. Implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law has increased and may further increase our operating expenses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The PRC Labor Contract Law became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law requires, among other things, employers to sign written contracts with their employees, restricts the use of temporary workers and formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs and the role of trade unions and provides for specific standards and procedures for the termination of an employment contract. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of a statutory severance amount upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases. For further requirements imposed by the Labor Contract Law, please see Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Government Regulation — Labor Contract Law.” In December 2007, we performed an internal review of our human resource policies and employment contracts with our employees including part-time employees and took all steps necessary to comply with the Labor Contract Law. Implementation of the Labor Contract Law has increased and may further increase our operating expenses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Natural disasters such as earthquakes may affect our telecom value-added services. Natural disasters such as snow storms, earthquakes, floods, typhoons and droughts may affect our telecom value-added services because provision of these services may be curtailed due to technical problems. For example, as a result of a 8.0 magnitude earthquake that struck the City of Wenchuan in Sichuan province on May 12, 2008, our provision of telecom value-added service in Sichuan province was interrupted due to certain technical problems. 21 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Moreover, while business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and cost of the insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors who owned our ordinary shares or ADSs during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75.0% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income (the “income test”), or (b) 50.0% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income (the “asset test”). For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25.0% or more of the shares of another corporation, we generally will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We believe we were a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for the previously ended taxable year and may be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year. Under the income and asset tests, whether or not we are a PFIC will be determined annually based upon the composition of our income and the composition and valuation of our assets, all of which are subject to change. In addition, in valuing our assets, we have made a number of assumptions which we believe are reasonable. However, it is possible that the IRS may disagree with these assumptions, which may affect the determination of whether we are a PFIC in a given year. Because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will or will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the IRS will not challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. Under recently enacted U.S. legislation and subject to future guidance, if we are a PFIC, U.S. Holders will be required to file, for returns due after March 18, 2010, an annual information return with the IRS relating to their ownership of our common shares or ADSs. Although expected, no guidance has yet been issued about such return, including on the information required to be reported on such return, the form of the return, or the due date for the return. 22 Table of Contents For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our possible classification as a PFIC, see Item 10.E. “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation.” We may have to constrain our business activities to avoid being deemed an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. The United States Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides generally that a company is an investment company which must register as such under the 1940 Act and comply with its regulations if: (i) the company is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (ii) more than 40% of the value of the company’s total assets is represented by investment securities as defined therein. The 1940 Act contains substantive regulations with respect to investment companies, including restrictions on their capital structure, operations, transactions with affiliates and other matters that would be incompatible with our operations. We may therefore have to incur significant costs and management time to avoid investment company status and may suffer other adverse consequences if we are deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. A substantial portion of our assets may or are likely to be considered investment securities for purposes of the 1940 Act. These assets include fixed time deposits and short- and long-term investments. Although we believe that we do not currently fall within the definition of an investment company under the 1940 Act, we may not be able to conduct or significantly expand our business activities in relation to these types of assets in the future, and there is no assurance that we will not be deemed an investment company under the 1940 Act in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws, and are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, beginning in our annual report with respect to the year ending December 31, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our management concluded that our internal controls are effective in this annual report, our management may not conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over our financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may decline to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over our financial reporting or may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements. 23 Table of Contents We are controlled by MNC, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. MNC currently holds approximately 58.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, it has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval. In addition, without the consent of MNC, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of MNC may differ from the interests of the other shareholders. We may not be able to collect our loans to PT Cakrawala Alam Semesta, such arrangements could be deemed to be in violation of existing or future Indonesian regulations, and depreciation in the value of Indonesian Rupiah may adversely affect our results of operations. During the period from July to November 2009, we extended loans in the aggregate principal amount of US$35.0 million to PT Cakrawala Alam Semesta, or Cakrawala, an Indonesian company controlled by us through contractual arrangements and treated as our VIE for accounting purposes. Cakrawala is owned by two of our employees. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Our Corporate Structure” for information regarding such contractual arrangements. Cakrawala places the money we loaned to it in fixed time deposits with Indonesian banks. Such deposits can only be made by domestic Indonesian entities, and we established this VIE arrangement with Cakrawala to take advantage of favorable interest rates on fixed time deposits in Indonesia. Such fixed time deposits were in U.S. dollars in 2009, and in February 2010 we converted approximately US$15 million into Indonesian Rupiah. Since these VIE arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over Cakrawala, in the event that Cakrawala fails to perform its obligations under our loan agreement with it, we may incur a loss on this loan or costs to enforce these arrangements. In addition, there have been media reports that Indonesia’s central bank will soon announce measures on capital flows to control the frequent inflow and outflow of short-term funds. We cannot predict whether the Indonesian government will introduce capital control mechanisms in the future. Moreover, our VIE arrangements with Cakrawala could possibly be deemed a violation of existing Indonesian regulations on foreign investments in Indonesian fixed time deposits. In each case, our VIE arrangements with Cakrawala might be prohibited or restricted, which, if applied, could have a material adverse effect on our investments in Indonesia. The Indonesian Rupiah experienced significant depreciation against the US dollar during the Asian economic crisis in 1997 and the exchange rate has fluctuated significantly in recent years. Although the Indonesian Rupiah has appreciated considerably from its low point in 1998, we cannot assure you that similar depreciation in the Indonesian Rupiah will not occur in the future. Such depreciation, if it occurs, would result in a loss on the value of our investments in US dollar terms. Our business may be adversely affected due to public concerns over the security and privacy of confidential user information. Our business may be adversely affected if the public concern over the security and privacy of confidential user information transmitted over the Internet and wireless networks is not adequately addressed and if significant breaches of network security or user privacy occur. 24 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by the restructuring of the Chinese telecommunications industry and the launch of 3G mobile networks. In an effort to promote greater competition among the telecommunications operators and foster the development of 3G mobile networks, on May 24, 2008, the MII, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the PRC Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Reform of Telecommunications Systems, or the Telecom Notice, which was adopted to consolidate China’s previously existing telecommunication operators into three new telecommunications operators that can offer both mobile and fixed line services. In accordance with the Telecom Notice, in 2008 China Railway Communication Co., Ltd., which operated a national fixed line network, merged into China Mobile, China Telecom acquired the Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) wireless business and network from China Unicom, and China Netcom, which was principally a fixed line operator, merged into China Unicom, which operates a Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) network and business. In January 2009, following the completion of this restructuring, the PRC government issued licenses to operate third generation, or 3G, mobile networks to China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. We believe the elimination of uncertainties relating to the telecommunications industry restructuring plan and the launch of 3G mobile technologies are likely to attract new participants to the telecom value-added services market and motivate our existing competitors to adapt more aggressive strategies. Our inability to successfully adapt our strategy and maintain and enhance our relationships with the surviving operators may adversely affect our competitive position in the market. In particular, the launch of 3G mobile technologies could radically alter or even eliminate the market for SMS or 2.5G (including multimedia messaging services, or MMS, WAP and Java games) services with which we are more familiar. Although our team has been studying various potential 3G services, we have no experience commercially offering such services and may not be able to offer services which are attractive to 3G mobile handset users in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, the 3G networks of China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom operate using different technological standards, and we may experience technical difficulties or delays in launching services across all three networks. Our inability to successfully capture opportunities in the 3G market could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The Chinese government or one or more of the operators may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that any of them believe is inappropriate. China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers, Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the Chinese government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. The operators in China also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by telecom value-added service providers and have punished certain providers for distributing content deemed by them to be obscene. Such punishments have included censoring of content, delays in payments of fees by the operators to the offending service provider, restrictions on the ability of the service provider to bill for its services and suspension of the service on the operators’ networks. Accordingly, even if we comply with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the Chinese government or one or more of the operators were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users, our revenue could be reduced and our reputation harmed. 25 Table of Contents Telecommunication laws and regulations in China are evolving and subject to interpretation and may change in the future. If we are found to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Although telecom value-added services are subject to general regulations regarding telecommunication services, we believe that currently, there are few Chinese laws at the national level specifically explicitly governing telecom value-added services, such as our services related to SMS, MMS, WAP and audio-related services. Many providers of telecom value-added services have obtained various value-added telecommunication services licenses. Although Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava and Lianyu have obtained inter-provincial value-added telecommunication services licenses issued by the MII or its local counterpart, we cannot be certain that other local or national value-added telecommunication services license requirements will not be imposed or will not conflict with each other or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of this category of service. It is also possible that new national legislation might be adopted to regulate such services. If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations regarding telecom value-added services or Internet access which is discussed in the following risk factor, the relevant Chinese authorities have the power to, among other things: • levy fines and prohibit new product and service offerings; • confiscate our income or the income of our subsidiaries and affiliates; • revoke our business license or the business license of our subsidiaries and affiliates; • shut down our servers or the servers of our subsidiaries and affiliates and/or blocking any websites that we operate; and • require us to discontinue any portion or all of our telecom value-added services business. The regulation of Internet website operators is also unclear in China, and our business could be adversely affected if we are deemed to have violated applicable laws and regulations. Our affiliates, Weilan and Yuan Hang, operate Internet websites in China, which are one of the channels through which our services are offered. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, the MII, and the possibility of new laws, regulations or policy positions being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies with Internet operations including those of our company. In particular, the MII has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various Chinese government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. On July 13, 2006, the MII issued a notice with the purpose of increasing the regulation of foreign investment in and operations of telecom value-added services which includes Internet and telecommunications businesses in China. The regulations require Chinese entities (or shareholders of such Chinese entities) to own and control the Internet domain names and registered trademarks, and to have servers and other equipment used to host and operate websites and conduct business. The ownership requirements functionally limit foreign direct and indirect ownership and control of the intellectual property of these businesses even when attempted through various parallel control, licensing, use and management agreements. It is unclear whether these regulations will be strictly enforced or be reiterated by the government in future. The government has provided that the new regulations apply retroactively and requests that value-added services operators self-audit under these regulations and hold themselves accountable to the MII local offices. Failure to comply may cause the MII to terminate a telecommunications license or otherwise modify existing agreements or require the disposition of the assets by the foreign entity. Any anticipated foreign investment in such businesses will be subject to prior approval by the MII, and it is expected that approval for investment may not be easily obtained for foreign investment in these businesses unless in strict compliance with the requirements of MII. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the local Shanghai Municipal Telecommunications Administration Bureau and held by Weilan or any value-added telecommunication license held by Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava and Lianyu will satisfy these requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable Chinese Internet regulations could subject us to severe penalties as noted in the prior risk factor. 26 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A slowdown in the Chinese economy may reduce our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. The growth of the Chinese economy has experienced a slowdown in 2009. The Chinese economy overall affects our profitability as spending on telecom value-added services may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. More specifically, increased penetration of telecom value-added services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of China will depend on potential customers in those provinces achieving certain income levels so that mobile handsets and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Government regulation of the telecommunications, television and Internet industries may become more burdensome. Government regulation of the telecommunications, television and Internet industries is burdensome and may become more burdensome. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. In addition to new laws and regulations, existing laws not currently applicable to the telecom value-added services may be applied to those services in the future. Any changes to our tax incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our foreign ADS holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on their sales of our ADSs if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliated Chinese entities enjoy tax exemptions and reduced tax rates, which increase our net income. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation.” The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax law, or the new EIT law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, generally provides grandfather treatment for companies entitled to preferential tax exemptions granted prior to such effective date but requires annual assessment for exemptions previously granted to high and new technology enterprises. Three of our affiliated entities, namely Yuan Hang, Cosmos and Beijing Ojava, passed their respective annual assessments as high and new technology enterprises for 2008 and continued to be entitled to preferential tax treatments for three years from 2008 to 2010. One of our affiliated entities, Lian Fei, did not qualify as a high and new technology enterprise in 2008 and 2009 and therefore, was not entitled to preferential tax treatment in 2008 and 2009. Our future results could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to maintain similar preferential tax treatment. 27 Table of Contents The new EIT law provides that enterprises incorporated inside or outside of China with a “de facto management body” in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their global income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting and properties of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation further issued a notice entitled “Notice Regarding Recognizing Offshore-Established Enterprises Controlled by PRC Shareholders as Resident Enterprises Based on Their De Facto Management Body.” Under this notice, a foreign company controlled by a PRC company or a group of PRC companies shall be deemed as a PRC resident enterprise, if (i) the senior management and the core management departments in charge of its daily operations mainly function in the PRC; (ii) its financial decisions and human resource decisions are subject to decisions or approvals of persons or institutions in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, minutes and files of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the directors or senior management personnel with voting rights reside in the PRC. Although our company is not controlled by any PRC company or a group of PRC companies, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed to be a “resident enterprise” of the PRC under the notice mentioned above or the new EIT law and thus not be subject to PRC enterprise income tax on our global income. Moreover, under the new EIT law, if we are deemed to be a resident enterprise of the PRC, our foreign corporate ADS holders may be subject to a 10% tax and our foreign individual ADS holders may be subject to a 20% tax upon dividends distributed by us and gains realized on their sales or other dispositions of our ADSs or ordinary shares, since such income may be regarded as sourced from the PRC. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. All participants in our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors, employees and other parties under PRC law. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. The Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, issued in January 2007 by SAFE, specify the approval requirements for PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan. In March 2007, SAFE promulgated the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies, or the Share Option Plan. According to the Share Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or other qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company may be converted into Renminbi or transferred to the employees’ individual foreign exchange savings account after such foreign exchange income is remitted into China. In addition, the overseas listed company or its PRC subsidiary or other qualified PRC agent is required to appoint an asset manager or administrator, appoint a custodian bank and open dedicated foreign currency accounts to handle transactions relating to the share option scheme or other share incentive plan. We and our PRC citizen employees who have been and will be granted share options, or PRC option holders, are subject to these rules. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these rules, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. 28 Table of Contents The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protection available to our investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 30 years has significantly enhanced the protection afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protection available to foreign investors such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as a value-added telecommunication license and requisite business licenses. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, an outbreak of the H5N1 strain of bird flu (avian influenza) or the H1N1 strain of swine influenza or another widespread public health problem could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China, where substantially all of our revenue is derived, in Beijing, where our principal executive offices are located, and in Shanghai, where our back office operations are located, could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, there has been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey and Cambodia and swine influenza in PRC, Japan, Korea and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in China, where most of our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, • the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy or in any of the other markets where we operate directly or through strategic partnerships. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning in recent years to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: • economic structure; 29 Table of Contents • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. Because almost all of our future revenue may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions and paying dividends, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Chinese regulations relating to foreign exchange and acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign entities may limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies and adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy as well as our business and prospects. On October 21, 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Notice 75 replaced the previous SAFE regulations relating to acquiring of Chinese companies by foreign entities. Notice 75 requires each PRC resident, whether a natural or legal person, to complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in China. In addition, an amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed by any PRC resident that directly or indirectly holds interests in that offshore company upon either (1) the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore company, or (2) the completion of any overseas fund raising by such offshore company. An amendment to the registration is also required to be filed by such PRC resident when there is any material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore company. 30 Table of Contents Moreover, Notice 75 applies retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in China in the past were required to complete the relevant overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures by March 31, 2006. To implement Notice 75, SAFE issued an implementation notice in May 2007, or Circular 106. Circular 106 specifies the circumstances under which PRC residents are required to comply with Notice 75 and the procedures of compliance. Under Circular 106, in the event a PRC resident failed to file for the relevant investment foreign exchange registration under Notice 75 by March 31, 2006 with respect to an overseas entity, any dividends remitted by the domestic subsidiary to such overseas entity since April 21, 2005 will be deemed as an evasion of foreign exchange purchase rules, making the remittance illegal. The domestic company and its actual controlling person(s) may also be fined. In addition, under Circular 106, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in Notice 75 and Circular 106 may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore company, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and were amended in June 2009. The M&A Rules established, among other things, additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance when a foreign investor acquires equity or assets of a PRC domestic enterprise. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM or its local counterparts may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. The interpretation and implementation of the SAFE regulations and the M&A Rules vary from place to place, and it is presently uncertain how these variations and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions. Thus, we cannot predict how they will affect our business operations or future acquisition strategy. For example, our present and prospective Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be conditioned upon compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such Chinese residents, over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such Chinese residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations because we have no control over the outcome of the registration procedures. The failure by such Chinese residents to register with SAFE according to Notice 75 and Circular 106 may significantly limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us. Such uncertainties may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. 31 Table of Contents The value of our ordinary shares and ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our ordinary shares and ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. From 1994 to July 21, 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, was based on exchange rates published by the People’s Bank of China, which were set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. During that period, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars was generally stable. On July 21, 2005, the Renminbi was revalued and allowed to fluctuate by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result, as of December 31, 2009, the Renminbi has appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar since July 2005. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantially more liberalized currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Further revaluations of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may also occur. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how the Renminbi exchange rates may change going forward. Our business and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could be negatively affected by a revaluation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or by other fluctuations in prevailing Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rates. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 