D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Risks Related to Our Contractual Relationships with the Mobile and Fixed Line Operators in China We depend on the principal mobile and fixed line telecommunication network operators in China for delivery of almost all of our services, and the termination or alteration of our various contracts with any of them or their provincial or local affiliates could materially and adversely impact our business. We offer most of our telecom value-added services to consumers through the two principal mobile phone operators in China, China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, and China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, which service substantially all of China’s approximately 487.4 million mobile phone subscribers. As of April 2007, China Mobile had approximately 321.4 million subscribers, or 66% of the mobile phone service market in China, while China Unicom had approximately 166 million subscribers, or 34% of the mobile phone service market in China. We also offer value-added services through the Personal Handyphone System, or PHS, and Personal Access System, or PAS, limited mobility networks of China Telecom Group, or China Telecom, and China Netcom Corporation Ltd., or China Netcom, which service substantially all of China’s 90.4 million subscribers of PAS and PHS networks, and audio-related services to fixed line customers of China Telecom and China Netcom. Given their dominant market position, our negotiating leverage with China Mobile, China Unicom, China Telecom and China Netcom (collectively referred to as “the operators” in this annual report) is limited. If our various contracts with any of the operators are terminated or adversely altered, it may be impossible to find appropriate replacement operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our services, and our business would be significantly impaired. For 2004, 2005 and 2006, we derived approximately 88.1%, 85.0% and 75.0%, respectively, of our total revenues, including all of our revenues for advanced second generation, or 2.5G, and a significant portion of our revenues for audio-related services, from China Mobile and are, therefore, particularly dependent on that operator. Our services are provided pursuant to contracts that we have with the national offices of the operators, as well as several of their provincial and local affiliates. Each of these contracts is non-exclusive, and has a limited term (generally one or two years). We usually renew these contracts or enter into new ones when the prior contracts expire, but on occasion the renewal or new contract can be delayed by periods of one month or more. The terms of these contracts vary, but the operators are 4 Table of Contents generally entitled to terminate them in advance for a variety of reasons or, in some cases, for no reason in their discretion. For example, several of our contracts with the operators can be terminated if: • we fail to achieve performance standards which are established by the applicable operator from time to time, • we breach our obligations under the contracts, which include, in many cases, the obligation not to deliver content that violates the operator’s policies and applicable law, and exclusivity provisions prohibiting us from offering services which are the same as the services we provide to any other telecommunications service providers, • the operator receives high levels of customer complaints about our services, or • the operator sends us written notice that it wishes to terminate the contract at the end of the applicable notice period. Changes in the policies of the operators and in their enforcement of their policies have resulted in our having to pay additional charges to the operators, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue, profitability and financial condition in the future. The operators have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the telecom value-added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality. In addition, the operators have unilaterally changed the way such policies have been enforced as applied to third party service providers such as ourselves, and may do so again in the future. We often only become aware of such policy changes when the operators inform us orally or provide us with a monthly statement indicating an additional charge, which in either case can happen months after the operating problem in question arose. Because of this time delay, we cannot always confirm the existence of such problems or correct errors in our systems in a timely manner. Beginning in April 2004, acting under the guidance of China’s Ministry of Information Industry, or the MII, the operators began enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and initiated steps to improve customer service. For example, the operators have been less willing to permit service providers to engage in broad distributions of short messages (known as SMS) to promote their services, known as “SMS pushes,” which have been used to cross-sell higher-margin services, because of the concern that users may find such messages a nuisance. While we intend to seek approval from the operators to engage in future SMS pushes, we cannot be certain that we will be granted permission to the extent we request, or at all. This rigorous enforcement, including the restrictions on SMS pushes, has resulted in a number of penalties being imposed on participants in the market. These penalties have included precluding such participants from offering certain services over the operators’ networks or from offering new services for a fixed period. While we believe the operators’ ongoing focus on compliance and service initiatives will result in a stronger, more orderly market in the long-term, it has also resulted in service and billing suspensions and in our having to pay certain charges due to the occasional contravention of certain of these policies by us. Specifically, we received a notice of sanction from China Mobile in December 2004 for violating its rules relating to the acquisition of users for our wireless application protocol, or WAP, services. As a result, we were not allowed to bill WAP users from January 1, 2005 until October 10, 2005. In addition, China Mobile suspended approval of any new product applications by us for its wireless platforms, including SMS, MMS, WAP, Java™, IVR and ringback, between January 1, 2005 and June 30, 2005. For 2005 and 2006, the amounts of fines were negligible, compared to $0.7 million for 2004. 5 Table of Contents In addition, in July 2006, China’s mobile operators introduced significant changes to their operating policies in accordance with policy directives from MII. For example, China Mobile’s new operating policies require that we send double confirmations for new subscriptions and a reminder to existing monthly subscribers of their subscription and fee information, and that inactive users are cancelled. China Unicom also started to require double confirmations on new subscriptions beginning in September 2006. Changes in these policies have, among other things, enabled monthly subscribers to more easily cancel our services and required us to automatically terminate subscription services for our inactive users. These policy changes by the operators negatively affected our revenue from 2G and one of our 2.5G services in 2006. Because the operators’ policies are in a state of flux at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to additional monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Our relationships with the operators could be adversely affected in the long-term if we are perceived to be providing consistently poor quality services or weak customer service. Any non-compliance with the operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if the operators begin providing their own portfolio of telecom value-added services that compete with our services. The principal mobile operators in China currently offer a limited number of specific telecom value-added services, such as personal information management and instant messaging. However, they have not yet developed their own comprehensive portfolio of services. Our business may be adversely affected if any of the operators decides to begin providing its own telecom value-added services to mobile phone users which compete with our services. In that case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but could be partially or fully denied access to their networks. Our revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay the operators for their share of service fees not paid by customers due to service quality or other problems. If a customer refuses to pay for a telecom value-added service due to quality or other problems attributable to the service provider, the operators have generally not required the service provider to pay them for their portion of the service fees that were lost as a result of the customer’s refusal to pay. However, China Unicom’s affiliate in Fujian province and China Mobile’s affiliate in Hubei province require us and other service providers to reimburse them for these amounts in connection with our services provided in those provinces. If any of the operators adopts such a policy in other provinces and we cannot maintain high levels of service quality and customer service, we may have to pay significant amounts of service fees for which we receive no corresponding revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We depend on the operators to maintain accurate records and to pay us for services we provide. We depend on the operators to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and to pay us for services we provide. Specifically, the operators provide us with monthly statements that do not provide itemized information regarding which of our services are being paid for. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the operators cannot be reconciled to our own internal records for the reasons discussed below under the heading “— Because the operators do not supply us with revenue 6 Table of Contents and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of services by service type, and as a result, which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance.” In addition, we have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us in this regard because we do not have access to the operators’ internal records. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the operators miscalculate the revenue generated from our services and our portion of that revenue. Our revenues and cost of services are affected by billing and transmission failures which are often beyond our control. We do not collect fees for our services from the operators in a number of circumstances, including if: • the delivery of our service to a customer is prevented because his or her phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has run out of value or the customer has ceased to be a customer of the applicable operator, • the operator experiences technical problems with its network which prevent the delivery of our services to the customer, • we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevents delivery of our services, or • the customer refuses to pay for our service due to quality or other problems. These situations are known in the industry as billing and transmission failures, and we do not recognize any revenue for services which are characterized as billing and transmission failures. Billing and transmission failures can significantly lower the revenue we record. We are also required to pay some of our content providers a percentage of the revenue received from or confirmed by the operators with respect to services incorporating the content providers’ products. In calculating the fees payable to these providers, we make estimates to take into account certain potential adjustments made by the operators which may have been applicable to the services incorporating the providers’ products, and reduce the fees payable by us accordingly. Nonetheless, as estimates involve making assumptions which may prove inaccurate, we have in the past paid, and may continue to pay, such providers fees which are disproportionate to what we have been paid for the relevant service. Because the operators do not supply us with revenue and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of services by service type, and as a result, which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance. The operators provide us with separate monthly statements for our SMS, 2.5G and audio-related services. However, the monthly statements of the operators with respect to each such service category do not contain revenue and billing and transmission failure information on a specific service-by-service basis. Although we maintain our own records reporting the services provided, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and cost of services by service type because we are unable to confirm which services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures. As a result, we are not able to definitively calculate and monitor service-by-service revenue, margins and other financial information, such as average revenue per user by service and total revenue per user by service, and also cannot definitively determine which of our services are or may be profitable. 7 Table of Contents The operators may impose higher service or network fees on us if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria. Fees for our telecom value-added services are charged on a monthly subscription or per use basis. Based on our contractual arrangements, we rely on the operators for both billing of, and collection from, mobile phone users of fees for our services. China Mobile generally charges us a service fee of 15% to 30% of the revenues generated by our services. China Unicom, China Telecom and China Netcom have implemented a sliding scale system whereby the percentage of gross revenue received by the service provider can range from 63% to 74%, 54% to 77% and 56% to 81%, respectively, depending on customer usage, revenue and other performance criteria. In 2006, we received on average 69%, 54% and 74%, respectively, of the gross revenue from China Unicom, China Telecom and China Netcom. Moreover, to the extent that the number of messages sent by us over China Mobile’s, China Unicom’s, and China Telecom’s network and China Netcom’s network in most provinces, exceeds the number of messages our customers send to us, we must pay per message network fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of our services increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our users, for example, if a user sends us a single message to order a game but we in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that we will be able to satisfy these criteria in the future or that the operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. Any future increase in the operators’ network fees and service charges could reduce our gross margins. The operators may not authorize our services to be offered on their networks if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria imposed or revised by the operators at their discretion from time to time. The operators, through their provincial and local offices, have historically preferred to work only with a small group of the best performing telecom value-added service providers, based upon the uniqueness of the service offered by each provider, total number of users, usage and revenue generated in the applicable province or municipality, the rate of customer complaints, and marketing expenditures in the applicable province or municipality. In the future, we may fail to meet the then current performance criteria that the operators set from time to time. In any such case, our services could be excluded from their networks at a provincial, municipal or national level, or we could be precluded from introducing new services, which would adversely affect our revenues and growth prospects. If China Mobile and China Unicom do not change their policies regarding how service selections appear on their WAP portals, we may have difficulty increasing the popularity of our WAP services, which could adversely affect our future revenue growth and profitability. The WAP portals of both China Mobile and China Unicom are organized much like the pages of an Internet Web site, with the services of third party service providers such as our company listed by category on various segregated WAP pages within each operator’s WAP portal. China Mobile and China Unicom currently place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. As users tend to pick from the first services they see on a WAP page, rather than scrolling through page after page, prominent positioning tends to reinforce the position of the most popular services. Because other service providers who entered the market for WAP services before we did have already established strong positions on the WAP menus of the operators, in particular, KongZhong Corporation with respect to China Mobile’s WAP portal, and Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. with respect to China Unicom’s WAP portal, we may have difficulty building 8 Table of Contents up the popularity of our various WAP services and thereby enhancing their positioning on the WAP menus, unless the operators change their WAP placement policies. Our failure to increase the popularity of our WAP services could adversely affect our future revenue growth and profitability. The services we offer and the prices we charge are subject to approval by the operators, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We must obtain approval from the operators with respect to each service that we propose to offer to their customers and the pricing for such service. In addition, any changes in the pricing of our existing services must be approved in advance by these operators. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, under all of our contracts with China Mobile and most of our contracts with China Unicom, China Telecom and China Netcom, we cannot change prices more than once every six months or charge prices outside of a fixed range. Failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our business. In addition, the operators’ recent more rigorous enforcement of their customer service policies may result in stricter scrutiny by the operators of our proposed services and pricing, which may in turn delay the approval process or result in disapproval of such proposed services or pricing. Risks Related to our Cross-Media Strategy If the third parties fail to perform or terminate any of our key contracts relating to our cross-media strategy for any reason or cease operations, our business could be materially and adversely affected. There are a limited number of entities in China with the requisite licenses to offer satellite television. Our cross-media strategy is dependent on key contracts with entities with the requisite licenses. For example, one of our PRC affiliated entities, namely Shanghai Ling Yu Cultural and Communication Ltd. (“Ling Yu”), which is 50% owned by Unilink and 50% owned by Qimingxing, entered into an agreement with Chinese Youth League Internet, Film and Television Centre (“CYL”) which has the exclusive rights to sell advertising for and provide most of the content of Qinghai Satellite Television, a regional satellite television broadcaster in China (“QTV”). Under the agreement with CYL, Ling Yu will serve as the exclusive advertising agent for QTV. In addition, Zhong Qing Wei Lian Cultural Communication Co., Ltd. (“Wei Lian”), one of our PRC affiliated entities, will produce television and interactive wireless programs for QTV. If CYL or QTV does not perform or terminates its agreement with our PRC affiliated entities, our ability to cross-sell satellite television programming content and advertising slots and our core wireless platform may be impaired. In addition, on January 8, 2007, one of our PRC affiliated entities entered into a contract with Shanghai Dong Fang Long New Media Co., Ltd. (“DFL”), a subsidiary of Shanghai Media Group (“SMG”), to provide interactive telecom value-added services for selected radio and television stations and related internet portals controlled by SMG. If DFL does not provide our PRC affiliated entity with the content and resources in accordance with the agreement, our PRC affiliated entity may not be able to generate sufficient revenues in order to recoup the advance payment of $1.3 million made to DFL. A failure to perform under the terms of or the termination of these key contracts or the discontinuing of operations of QTV or DFL may have an adverse effect on our operating results. If the target audience of our satellite television partners does not accept our programs and content, our operating results may not meet our expectations. To increase our advertising revenue, we must create or purchase, on a cost-effective basis, popular, high-quality programming content for our satellite television station partners such as QTV. 9 Table of Contents However, we have limited experience purchasing content, negotiating advertising placements or managing onscreen or off-screen talent. If we are unable to create or purchase popular, high-quality programming content on a cost-effective basis, we will be unable to sell advertising slots on satellite television stations such as QTV and our operating results may not meet our expectations. The success of our cross-media strategy depends on attracting advertisers who will advertise across our various platforms. If we fail to attract a sufficient number of advertisers, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected and our operating results may not meet our expectations. Our cross-media strategy provides advertisers with the opportunity to advertise on our traditional media and on our wireless platforms. However, advertisers may decide that they do not need to use multiple platforms, find that the demographics of the audience of our platforms do not consist of their targeted customers, or decide not to use our platforms for other reasons. If the advertisers decide against advertising with us, we may not realize our growth potential and our operating results may not meet our expectations. The PRC law on advertising content is such that we may be subject to liability for advertisements produced by us or advertisements displayed on our or our satellite television partners’ media platforms. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including businesses such as ours, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute is fair and accurate and is in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for advertising business operations. Violators may even be jointly liable for the damages to the consumers. We and our satellite television partners are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content that is shown, displayed or printed on any of our or their media outlets for compliance with applicable law. In addition, for advertising content related to specific types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical facilities, we and our satellite television partners are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals, including the advertiser’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. We and, to our best knowledge, our satellite television partners, employ qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, and we endeavor to comply, and encourage our satellite television partners to take measures to comply, with such requirements, by methods including requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. Landing rights for satellite television in China are increasingly granted through auction, which may increase our cost of broadcasting rights or result in our satellite television partners’ inability to obtain landing rights. Since 2004, certain cities have used an auction process to sell landing rights to China’s provincial satellite stations, as the increasing number of satellite channels seeking landing rights exceeded the bandwidth limit of cable systems. This may greatly increase the cost of broadcasting rights in such cities or may prevent QTV from obtaining landing rights altogether. There is also a risk that QTV may lose landing rights previously granted at no cost under reciprocal arrangements. Any of these developments may also adversely affect our operating results. 10 Table of Contents Additional Risks Related to Our Company We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business. We began commercially offering telecom value-added services in China in August 2000, and since that time, the technologies and services used in the telecom value-added services industry in China have developed rapidly. As a result of this rapid and continual change in the industry, you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development. These risks include our ability to: • attract and retain users for our telecom value-added services, especially for our 2.5G and audio-related services, • our ability to expand the content and services that we offer and, in particular, develop and aggregate innovative new content and service offerings, and sources of revenues which are not dependent on the operators, • respond effectively to rapidly evolving competitive and market dynamics and address the effects of mergers and acquisitions among our competitors, • migrate existing users to subscription-based offerings, including our 2.5G and audio-related services, in order to build a large and stable user base and generate recurring revenue, • maintain, expand and enhance our relationships with international media companies and other strategic partners, and • increase awareness of our brand and user loyalty. Due to these factors, there can be no certainty that we will maintain or increase our current share of the highly competitive market in which we operate. The success of some of our services is significantly dependent on our ability to obtain, customize and localize desirable content and technology from third parties. We are increasingly obtaining much of our content, including wireless games, logos, music, news and other information, from third parties. Furthermore, we expect that we will license technology in connection with our development of next generation services such as MMS and JavaTM. As the market for telecom value-added services develops, content and technology providers have increased their profits from these distribution and localization arrangements by demanding a greater share of revenue or other fees, which has adversely affected our financial performance. Many of our arrangements with content and technology providers are non-exclusive, short-term and subject to renewal. If our competitors are able to provide such content in a similar or superior manner or to license the same technologies, it could adversely affect the popularity of our services and our negotiating leverage with third party providers. In addition, we must often invest significant resources in customizing and localizing the content and applications we license or purchase for the Chinese wireless market. This may include work ranging from translating the content or application interface into Chinese to performing significant development work to utilize the particular content or application. 11 Table of Contents If we fail to establish and maintain economically attractive relationships with content and technology providers and to thereafter successfully customize and localize their products, we may not be able to attract and retain users or maintain or improve our financial performance. We began to recognize revenue for our services on an accrual basis beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2003, which involves the use of estimates of monthly revenue to the extent we are unable to obtain actual figures from the operators before we finalize our financial statements. This could in turn require us to make adjustments to our financial statements. Our financial statements through September 30, 2003 reflect our actual revenues as they appear on the operators’ statements. However, for subsequent quarters, we recognized revenue earned on an accrual basis and plan to do so in future quarters, if necessary, in order to report our earnings on a timely basis. This involves the use of estimates of monthly revenue based on our internal records for the month and monthly confirmation rates with the operators in prior months if we are unable to obtain actual figures from the operators before we finalize our financial statements. Actual revenue may differ from prior estimates when unexpected variations in billing and transmission failures occur. Recognizing revenue on an accrual basis could potentially require us to later make adjustments to our financial statements if the operators’ billing statements and cash payments are different from our estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation and the price of our ADSs. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, approximately 3.0%, 2.0% and 0.5%, respectively, of our gross revenues were based on such estimates. However, we are focusing on increasing sales of our telecom value-added services through the PHS and PAS networks, and of our audio related services to fixed line customers of China Telecom and China Netcom, which have not implemented comprehensive billing systems. As a result, we have on occasion received monthly statements from China Telecom and China Netcom significantly later than China Mobile provincial operators. Beginning from April 2007, China Unicom affiliates in all provinces have lengthened their time of confirming actual revenue figures to service providers by another two to three months. These factors in turn tend to increase the portion of our revenue that we must estimate for a given quarter. Our management and board of directors have evaluated the effect of these trends on our methodology for making revenue estimates. Although we have no plans to do so currently, it is possible that it may be necessary in the future for us to extend the time between the end of a fiscal quarter and the announcement of our earnings for that quarter to obtain additional monthly confirmation statements. Such an extension could result in our having to announce earnings after our normally scheduled earnings release date, which could potentially adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Moreover, we may have to make additional adjustments to our estimation methodology in the future, which could result in unexpected discrepancies in estimates, or to stop making estimations. We face intense competition. The Chinese market for telecom value-added services is intensely competitive, and is changing rapidly. We compete principally with three groups of telecom value-added service providers in China: • dedicated service providers such as Linktone, whose business focus is to offer a variety of wireless content directly to mobile users, • the national Internet portal operators in China, which offer Internet access and content aggregation services on a nationwide basis in addition to wireless services, and 12 Table of Contents • niche service providers, which focus primarily on a particular market segment or application that often builds on a pre-existing sector competency. We have faced competition from service providers in the three groups described above since our entry into this market. We may also face significant competition from other parties, including companies which offer online services and are expanding to various degrees into telecom value-added services, such as Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited, which primarily focuses on Internet-based games but has also begun to offer wireless games. Moreover, there are low barriers to entry for new competitors in the telecom value-added services market, particularly for 2G services. Several of our competitors have longer operating histories in China, greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and databases, significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and superior access to original content than we have. As a result, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenues. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the relatively wealthier coastal and southern provinces in China, and the termination or alteration of our contracts with the operators or a general economic downturn in those areas could have a particularly adverse effect on our business. Per capita income levels and mobile phone penetration rates (i.e., the number of mobile subscribers divided by the population of China) in China are generally higher in the coastal and southern provinces, such as Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning, and Zhejiang provinces, as well as the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing, which are among our top revenue generating locales. As noted above, there are numerous, often highly-subjective bases on which the operators have the right to terminate our contracts with them. Moreover, our contracts with China Mobile for Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning and Zhejiang provinces and the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing can be terminated in the discretion of either contracting party upon 15 to 30 days notice, depending on the contract. If these contracts are terminated or adversely altered or there is a general economic downturn in those areas, our business could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether there will be a termination of our contracts with affiliates of the operators in significant provinces in the future. We have incurred net losses for a significant portion of our history. We incurred net losses beginning in the first quarter of 2007 when we began to implement our cross-media strategy and may incur additional losses in future periods. We incurred significant net losses until the first quarter of 2003 and began incurring net losses again in the first quarter of 2007 during which we incurred significant expenses related to our cross media strategy. We could incur significant net losses in the future as we continue to implement our cross-media strategy or due to changes in the market, operating environment and competitive dynamics and our ability to respond to those changes. If we do not sustain profitability, the market price of our ADSs may decline. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Michael Guangxin Li, our chief executive officer, and Colin Sung, our chief financial officer. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, 13 Table of Contents and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving our company is high and could disrupt our operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve through our cross-media strategy. As our user base increases, we will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, customer service and sales and marketing which are important to our future success. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services and our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. For example, any such performance issue could prompt the operators to cease offering our services over their networks. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • develop and quickly introduce new services, adapt our existing services and maintain and improve the quality of all of our services, particularly as new mobile technologies such as 3G are introduced, • effectively maintain our relationships with the operators, • expand the percentage of our revenues which are recurring and are derived from monthly subscription based services, • develop sources of revenue which are not dependent on the operators, • enter into and maintain relationships with desirable content providers, • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management, some of whom have been with our company for less than one year, • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls, and • maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Any failures of the mobile telecommunications network, the Internet or our technology platform may reduce use of our services. Both the continual accessibility of the networks of the operators in China and the performance and reliability of China’s internet infrastructure are critical to our ability to attract and retain users. Moreover, our business depends on our ability to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. The servers which constitute the principal system hardware for 14 Table of Contents our operations are located in four locations in Shanghai, three locations in Beijing and one location in each of Nanjing, Guangzhou, Chongqing and Hebei. We maintain backup system hardware in our offices in Shanghai and Beijing, but cannot be certain such backup will be adequate if there are problems with our primary system hardware. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures caused by sustained power shutdowns, floods or fire causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware equipment, or other events outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of the mobile networks, the Internet or our technology platform, could adversely impact our ability to provide our services to users and decrease our revenues. If our exclusive providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services or increase their prices, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on affiliates of China Telecom and China Netcom to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for our services pursuant to contracts which have one-year terms, in the case of China Telecom, or are terminable at the discretion of either party, in the case of China Netcom, and are usually in the standard forms of the respective service provider. If China Telecom, China Netcom or their respective affiliates fail to provide such services, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to find a substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom, China Netcom or their respective affiliates. If China Telecom, China Netcom or their respective affiliates fail to provide these services or raise their prices, our business could be adversely affected. Our corporate structure could be deemed to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws and regulations which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. In connection with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, foreign investment in telecommunications and Internet services in China was liberalized to allow for up to 30.0% foreign ownership in value-added telecommunication and Internet services in 2002, 49.0% in 2003 and 50.0% thereafter. In order to meet these ownership requirements, as of December 31, 2006, we maintained control over the following PRC affiliated companies: (i) Shanghai Weilan Computer Co., Ltd. (“Weilan”), which is 50% owned by each of two of our employees, Baoxin Yao and Wenlei Wang; (ii) Shanghai Unilink Company Ltd. (“Unilink”), which is 50% owned by each of two of our employees, Rong Zhang and Wenjun Hu; (iii) Shenzhen Yuan Hang Technology Co., Ltd. (“Yuanhang”), which is 50% owned by each of two of our employees, Yuming Cai and Xuan Fan; (iv) Beijing Cosmos Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (“Cosmos”), which currently is 50% owned by each of two of our employees, Rong Zhang and Teng Zhao (such equity interests are in the process of being transferred to two other employees, Hongjie Qi and Miao Yan); (v) Hainan Zhong Tong Computer Network Co., Ltd. (“Zhong Tong”), which is 50% owned by our former employee, Jinhua Yuan, which is in the process of being transferred to our employee, Yi Huang, and 50% owned by our employee, Teng Zhao; (vi) Beijing Lian Fei Wireless Communications Technology Co., Ltd. (“Lian Fei”), which is 50% owned by each of two of our employees, Jing Wang and Rong Li; (vii) Shanghai Qimingxing E-commerce Co., Ltd. (“Qimingxing”), which is 50% owned by each of two of our employees, Di Qian and Lijin Shen; and (viii) Beijing Ojava Wireless Information Technology Co. Ltd. (“Beijing Ojava”), which is 50% owned by each of two of our employees, Xinyong Ding and Jun Xi. We hold no ownership interest in these companies. It is possible that the relevant Chinese authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion of or all of the existing or future ownership structure and businesses of us, any of our wholly owned subsidiaries, or any of our PRC affiliated companies, violate existing or future Chinese laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the telecommunication or Internet sectors in China that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our, our wholly owned subsidiaries’ or our PRC affiliated companies’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, these new laws and 15 Table of Contents regulations may be retroactively applied. In any such case, we could be required to restructure our operations which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities. At December 31, 2006, we had provided long-term interest free loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately RMB107.3 million ($13.1 million) to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities for the purpose of investing in our affiliated Chinese entities as registered capital and to make payments to the selling shareholders from whom we acquired certain of our affiliated Chinese entities for settlement of purchase price consideration pursuant to applicable acquisition agreements. The term of these loans in each case is 10 years. The shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities can only repay the loans by transferring to us or our designees all of their equity interest in the respective affiliated Chinese entity. Please refer to the table under Item 5 of this annual report under the heading “Arrangements with Consolidated Affiliates — Loan Agreements.” We expect that we will continue to be involved in and provide additional financial support in the future to the extent allowed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable laws. Because of uncertainty associated with Chinese law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. We depend upon contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities for the success of our business. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our business only in China, and because we are restricted by the Chinese government from owning telecommunications, Internet or advertising operations in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, Weilan, Unilink, Yuanhang, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, Beijing Ojava and Ling Yu in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements with the operators. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our telecommunications or Internet operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our affiliated Chinese entities could fail to take actions required to operate our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or service contracts with the operators in China. Moreover, the fees for our services are paid by the operators directly to our affiliated Chinese entities, which are then obligated at our request to transfer substantially all or some of such fees to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, Shanghai Linktone Consulting Co., Ltd. (“Linktone Consulting”), Shanghai Huitong Information Co., Ltd. (“Huitong”) and Shanghai Linktone Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (“Linktone Internet”). If our affiliated Chinese entities fail to perform their obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot assure you would be effective or sufficient. We generate our internal funds almost exclusively from our subsidiaries. If those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, we may lose almost all of our internal source of funds. We are a holding company with assets consisting primarily of cash generated from our initial public offering in March 2004 and our equity interests in Linktone Consulting, Huitong, Linktone Internet, Brilliant Concept Investments Ltd. (“Brilliant”), Wang You Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (“Wang You”), Linktone Software Co., Ltd. (“Linktone Software”) and Beijing RuiDa Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (“Ruida”). Our internal source of funds has been derived almost exclusively from dividend payments from those entities after they receive payments from our PRC affiliated companies. We are likely to lose all of our source of funds if those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, except for interest and dividend we earned on our fixed deposits and short term investments which totaled $752,000 in 2004, $1,880,000 in 2005, and $1,676,500 in 2006. Under current Chinese tax regulations, dividends paid to us are not subject to Chinese withholding tax but must be paid out of net income as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations, which in turn restricts our ability to receive these revenues. However, after the Enterprise Income Tax Law becomes effective on 16 Table of Contents January 1, 2008, dividends paid to us may be subject to taxation. See “Risks Related to Doing Business in China — We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes after the Enterprise Income Tax Law becomes effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries and our business could be adversely affected.” The principal differences between net income under Chinese accounting standards and U.S. GAAP relate to stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Stock-based compensation and deferred taxes are not recognized under Chinese accounting standards. Under Chinese law, Linktone Consulting, Huitong, Linktone Internet, Wang You, Linktone Software and Ruida are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are established to offset losses and for other general purposes under Chinese law and they are not distributable as cash dividends. If further restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiaries are implemented under Chinese law, our revenues could decrease significantly. If any of our subsidiaries incurs any debt, it could impact our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. If the 9Sky entities or its founder fail to perform its obligations relating to a loan we extended to the 9Sky entities, our results could be adversely affected. In 2005, we made a strategic investment in 9Sky International Ltd, Shanghai Yue Sheng Information Technology Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Yin Zhi Yue Information Technology Co., Ltd. (collectively known as “9Sky entities”). In connection with this investment, we loaned the 9Sky entities, an aggregate principal amount of $0.8 million which was to be repaid in installments beginning in March 2007. As of December 31, 2006, $0.8 million was outstanding under the loan. In July 2007, we reached an agreement with one of the 9Sky founders to obtain a pledge of 1.1 million of his ordinary shares of 9Sky International Ltd. against the outstanding amount due under the loan after one year of $672,014 and accumulated interest. We have agreed that 9Sky International Ltd. shall repay the outstanding amounts due under the loan by April 30, 2008. We also have the right to exercise our rights under the share pledge by the 9Sky founder in the event 9Sky International Ltd. fails to repay the outstanding amounts due under the loan by April 30, 2008 and to require the 9Sky founder to repurchase the shares from us for cash, at a value of $1 per share, beginning in November 1, 2008 in the event 9Sky International Ltd. fails to repay the outstanding amounts due under the loan as of such date. If the 9Sky entities fail to repay the outstanding amounts due under the loan or if the 9Sky founder fails to buy back the ordinary shares of 9Sky International Ltd., we could determine that the loan is impaired, in which case our results could be adversely affected. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and harm our reputation. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect our systems against the threat of such computer viruses and hacking and to rectify any damage to our 17 Table of Contents systems. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking which affects our systems is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. Our revenues fluctuate significantly and may adversely impact the trading price of our ADSs or any other securities which become publicly traded. Our revenues and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control. Steady revenues and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: • attract and retain users in the increasingly competitive telecom value-added services market in China, • expand the percentage of our revenues which are recurring and are derived from monthly subscription based services, • successfully implement our business strategies, and • update and develop our services, technologies and content, including aggregating, customizing and localizing third party technologies and content for the China market. Because the telecom value-added services industry in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving and our business is also relatively new and has experienced significant volatility in terms of financial results as a result of the factors stated above, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. We may be held liable for information displayed on or retrieved from our service offerings. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are provided via our telecom value-added services. For example, we could be subject to defamation claims for messages posted on our services that allow chatting, or SMS news updates sent to users by us could possibly be deemed to contain state secrets in violation of applicable Chinese law. In addition, third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on information distributed by us. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have registered 104 trademarks with China’s Trademark Office and one trademark in each of Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. We are in the process of applying for 16 additional trademarks in China and two trademarks in the United States. We have also obtained 27 copyright certificates in China for certain cartoons and images and 32 copyright certificates for computer software. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be effective to prevent unauthorized parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology and content, particularly in China where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. For 18 Table of Contents example, competitors could copy one or more of our downloadable icons, and we may not become aware of the infringement in a timely manner or at all or be able to take effective action to enforce our rights. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Moreover, while business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and cost of the insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions or ventures with strategic partners may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our acquisition of Beijing Ojava and new ventures into television advertising and television content production form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional businesses, technologies, services or products which are complementary to our core telecom value-added services business. Some of the companies we acquired have not performed as well as we expected, and have required or will require, significant attention from our management, in particular to ensure that the acquisitions do not disrupt our relationships with the mobile operators in China, or affect our users’ opinion of our services and customer support and are effectively integrated with our existing operations and telecom value-added services. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Acquisitions expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new operations, services and personnel, ensuring effective internal controls with respect to acquired businesses, the extent to which acquired businesses give rise to unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and content providers as a result of integration of new businesses. Given the sophisticated technologies used in the telecom value-added services industry, the successful, cost-effective integration of other businesses’ technology platforms and services into our own is also a critical, and highly complex, aspect of any acquisition. We may have been a passive foreign investment company for 2006 and may become a passive foreign investment company for the current taxable year of 2007, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors who 19 Table of Contents owned our ordinary shares or ADSs during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. The same adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences will apply to U.S. investors who acquire our ordinary shares or ADSs during the current taxable year of 2007 or any subsequent taxable year if we are treated as a PFIC for that taxable year. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (b) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25% or more of the shares of another corporation, we will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We may have been a PFIC for 2006 and may become a PFIC for the current taxable year of 2007. Accordingly, the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences described above could apply to you if you are a U.S. investor. Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to our status as a PFIC. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC, see “Taxation” below. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated articles of association, include provisions which could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include a classified board of directors. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute a potential hostile acquirer’s ownership interest in our company, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws, and beginning in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, beginning in the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our management concluded that our internal controls are effective in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, our management may not conclude that our internal controls are effective in the future. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective, our independent public registered accounting firm may disagree. If our independent public registered accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls over our financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent public registered accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently 20 Table of Contents from us, then it may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our ability to generate revenues could suffer if the Chinese market for telecom value-added services does not develop as anticipated. The telecom value-added services market in China has evolved rapidly over the last four years, with the introduction of new services, development of consumer preferences, market entry by new competitors and adaptation of strategies by existing competitors. We expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in our market. In particular, we are currently focused on establishing a wide range of telecom value-added services for mobile phone handsets using 2.5G technologies. There can be no assurance, however, that these 2.5G technologies and any services compatible with them will continue to be accepted by consumers or promoted by the operators. Moreover, there are numerous other technologies in varying stages of development, such as 3G mobile technologies, which could radically alter or even eliminate the market for SMS or 2.5G services. Accordingly, it is extremely difficult to accurately predict consumer acceptance and demand for various existing and potential new offerings and services, and the future size, composition and growth of this market. Furthermore, given the limited history and rapidly evolving nature of our market, we cannot predict the price that wireless subscribers will be willing to pay for our services or whether subscribers will have concerns about security, reliability, cost and quality of service associated with wireless services. If acceptance of our telecom value-added services is different than anticipated, our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and profits could be materially and adversely affected. The Chinese government or one or more of the operators may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that any of them believe is inappropriate. China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers, Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the Chinese government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any Web site maintained outside China at its sole discretion. The operators in China also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by telecom value-added service providers and have punished certain providers for distributing content deemed by them to be obscene. Such punishments have included censoring of content, delays in payments of fees by the operators to the offending service provider, restrictions on the ability of the service provider to bill for its services and suspension of the service on the operators’ networks. Accordingly, even if we comply with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the Chinese government or one or more of the operators were to take any 21 Table of Contents action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users, our revenues could be reduced and our reputation harmed. The State Administration of Radio, Film and Television has published regulations that subject media operators to potential liability for content distributed through their broadcast media. Under applicable PRC regulations, we or our satellite television station partners may be held liable for any content we or they offer or will offer through the media platforms we utilize, including television programs and advertisements. If any of our content or the content of our satellite television partners is deemed to have violated any of such content restrictions, we or they would not be able to continue to create or distribute such content and could be subject to certain penalties, including revocation of licenses for operating media services, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results. Telecommunication laws and regulations in China are evolving and subject to interpretation and may change in the future. If we are found to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Although telecom value-added services are subject to general regulations regarding telecommunication services, we believe that currently, there are few Chinese laws at the national level specifically explicitly governing telecom value-added services, such as our services related to SMS, MMS, WAP and audio-related services. Many providers of telecom value-added services have obtained various value-added telecommunication services licenses. Although Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing and Beijing Ojava have obtained inter-provincial value-added telecommunication services licenses issued by the MII or its local counterpart, we cannot be certain that other local or national value-added telecommunication services license requirements will not be required or will not conflict with each other or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of this category of service. It is also possible that new national legislation might be adopted to regulate such services. If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations regarding telecom value-added services or Internet access which is discussed in the following risk factor, the relevant Chinese authorities have the power to, among other things: • levy fines and prohibit new product and service offerings; • confiscate our income or the income of our subsidiaries and affiliates; • revoke our business license or the business license of our subsidiaries and affiliates; • shut down our servers or the servers of our subsidiaries and affiliates and/or blocking any Web sites that we operate; and • require us to discontinue any portion or all of our telecom value-added services business. The regulation of Internet Web site operators is also unclear in China, and our business could be adversely affected if we are deemed to have violated applicable laws and regulations. Our affiliate, Weilan, operates Internet Web sites in China, which are one of the channels through which our services are offered. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, MII, and the possibility of new laws, regulations or policy positions being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies with 22 Table of Contents Internet operations including those of our company. In particular, MII has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various Chinese government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. On July 13, 2006, MII issued a notice with the purpose of increasing the regulation of foreign investment in and operations of value added telecommunications services which includes internet and telecommunications businesses in China. The regulations require Chinese entities (or shareholders of such Chinese entities) to own and control the internet domain names and registered trademarks, and to have servers and other equipment used to host and operate web-sites and conduct business. The ownership requirements functionally limit foreign direct and indirect ownership and control of the intellectual property of these businesses even when attempted through various parallel control, licensing, use and management agreements. It is anticipated that these regulations will be strictly enforced, and the government has provided that the new regulations apply retroactively and provide for audit procedures. Failure to comply may cause MII to terminate a telecommunications license or otherwise modify existing agreements or require the disposition of the assets by the foreign entity. Any anticipated foreign investment in such businesses will be subject to prior approval by MII, and it is expected that approval for investment may not be easily obtained for foreign investment in these businesses unless in strict compliance. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the local Shanghai Municipal Telecommunications Administration Bureau and held by Shanghai Weilan or any value-added telecommunication license held by Weilan, Unilink, Cosmos, Zhong Tong, Lian Fei, Qimingxing, and Beijing Ojava will satisfy these requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable Chinese Internet regulations could subject us to severe penalties as noted in the prior risk factor. Our business could be adversely affected by a change in the extensive PRC laws and regulations imposing significant control over the media industry, including television, radio, advertising, media content production, and the market research industry or a change in the interpretations thereof by the PRC judiciary and other government authorities. The PRC government has enacted extensive regulations imposing significant control over the media industry, including television, radio, advertising, media content production, and the market research industry. The State Council promulgated the Regulations on the Administration of Radio and Television (“Radio and Television Regulations”) on August 11, 1997. According to the Radio and Television Regulations, radio and television stations in the PRC shall be established by the radio, film and television administrative departments at the level of county or city undivided into districts, and the educational television stations may be set up by the educational administrative departments at the city divided into districts or autonomous prefecture level or above. Under the Radio and Television Regulation, no other unit or individual may establish a radio or television station. The Radio and Television Regulation further prohibits establishing foreign operated, Sino-foreign equity or contractual joint radio and television stations. The State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, the Ministry of Culture, the General Administration for Press and Publication, the National Development & Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce jointly issued the Several Opinions on Foreign Investment in the Culture Sector (the “Opinions”) on July 6, 2005. According to the Opinions, no foreign investor is permitted to establish or operate any press institution, radio office /station, television office/ station, radio and TV transmission covering network, production and broadcasting company of radio and television programs, film production company, any company that engages in the import and distribution of films or any company that engages in video projection. In addition, no foreign investor is permitted to advertise in, print or distribute publications or to use cultural facilities in order to operate or control radio or television channels or to otherwise promote propaganda activities, 23 Table of Contents printing, distribution or culture facilities upgrading services to operate or control radio frequencies, television channels, publications and propaganda activities. The State Administration of Radio, Film and Television has also issued five significant rules to regulate the radio and television industry. A summary of each follows: Detailed Procedures for the Financing of Radio, Film and Television Conglomerates (the “Detailed Procedures”) was promulgated by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television promulgated on December 20, 2001. According to the Detailed Procedures, the news media, including radio stations, television stations, radio frequencies and television channels, shall be organized and operated by the state and shall not utilize foreign or private capital. Measures for the Administration of Examination and Approval of Radio Stations and Television Stations (the “Radio and Television Measures”) was promulgated by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television on August 18, 2004. Under these Radio and Television Measures, the central government prohibits the establishment of radio and television stations in the form of foreign-funded venture, Chinese-foreign equity joint venture or Chinese-foreign cooperative joint venture. Radio and television stations shall, in principle, be established by the radio, film and television administrative departments at the level of county or city undivided into districts or by the authorized enterprise groups of such radio, film and television administrative departments (the chief station), and educational television stations may be set up by the educational administrative departments at the city divided into districts or autonomous prefecture level or above. Circular on the Further Strengthening of the Supervision of Radio and Television Channels (the “Supervision Circular”), issued on August 4, 2005 by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, again restricted the industry. According to the Supervision Circular, non-state owned capital and foreign capital may not be invested in a radio or television channel in any form or used in connection with such channels in any form, and foreign investors are prohibited from operating radio frequencies or television channels by means of providing advertising, printing or distribution services. Interim Provisions on the Administration of Sino-foreign Equity and Cooperative Joint Ventures of Radio and Television Program Production (the “Interim Provisions”), promulgated by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television on October 28, 2004, prohibit wholly foreign-owned enterprises from producing radio and television programs or drama series. The Interim Provisions further state that no foreign investor may hold more than 49% of the equity interest, subject to certain restrictions, in a Sino-foreign equity and cooperative joint ventures for radio and television program production. Provisions on the Administration of Radio and Television Program Production (the “Program Production Provisions”) was promulgated by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television on July 19, 2004. According to the Program Production Provisions, entities engaging in the production of radio and television programs, such as feature programs, general programs, drama series and animations, and the trading activities and agency services on the copyrights of such programs, must first obtain preliminary approval from the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television or its provincial branches for the appropriate license. Afterwards, the entity must register with the State Administration for Industry and Commerce to obtain or update its business license. The establishment of a production company for drama series must be approved by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television or its provincial branches. Such company must also obtain the appropriate licenses from the provincial branches of the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television. There are two types of drama series production licenses. The first type is a general license applicable to all drama series produced by the 24 Table of Contents license holder during a two-year term. The second type is a specific license applicable to the specific drama series identified on the license. There is a risk that the strategic partnerships we or our affiliated Chinese entities have may be deemed to have the actual effect of operating radio or television stations or otherwise violating one of the above regulations. If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China businesses do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the media and market research industries, or if these regulations or their interpretation change in the future, we could be subject to significant penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. The Chinese government is expected to grant regional or national licenses to offer full mobility wireless services in China to China Telecom, China Netcom and possibly other parties with which we have not yet developed close relationships. If those parties receive licenses and are successful in the market but we are unable to develop cooperative relationships with them, our business could be adversely affected. It is anticipated that the Chinese government will grant regional or national licenses to offer full mobility wireless services in China to China Telecom, China Netcom and possibly other parties, although the timing of such grants is unclear. We began providing SMS services over the fixed line networks of China Telecom and China Netcom in September 2004, and have launched audio related services over the fixed line networks and the limited mobility PHS and PAS networks operated by those operators. Limited mobility networks provide a limited range of mobile phone services to a group of users within a designated geographic area such as a single city. Our relationships with these mobile operators are not, however, as developed as our relationships with China Mobile and China Unicom. As a result, if those parties receive regional or national wireless licenses and are successful in the market but we are unable to develop cooperative relationships with them, our business would be adversely affected if they take market share for telecom value-added services from China Mobile and China Unicom. It is also possible that China Telecom, China Netcom and any other parties receiving wireless licenses may decide to offer telecom value-added services created by them, rather than by third party service providers such as our company. In that case, we would be in direct competition with those operators, and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively against them. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A slow-down in the Chinese economy may reduce our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any slow down will not have a negative effect on our business. In addition, the Chinese government recently began using macroeconomic tools to slow the rate of Chinese economic growth, the results of which are difficult to predict. The Chinese economy overall affects our profitability as spending on telecom value-added services may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. More specifically, increased penetration of telecom value-added services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of China will depend on potential customers in those provinces achieving certain income levels so that mobile handsets and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. 25 Table of Contents Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome. Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become more burdensome. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. In addition to new laws and regulations, existing laws not currently applicable to the telecom value-added services may be applied to those services in the future. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes after the Enterprise Income Tax Law becomes effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries and our business could be adversely affected. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose “de facto management body” is located in China are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. It is currently unclear in which situations a non-PRC enterprise’s “de facto management body” is located in China. All of our management is currently based in China, and may remain in China after the effectiveness of the new tax law. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which will include any dividend income we receive from our subsidiaries, including Linktone Consulting, Huitong, Linktone Internet, Wang You, Linktone Software and Ruida. In addition, although the new tax law provides that dividend income between qualified resident enterprises is exempted income, it is not clear what is considered a qualified resident enterprise under the new tax law. If we are required under the new tax law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, our revenues could decrease significantly. All participants in our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors, employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, the capital account department of SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, Hui Zong Fa [2007] No. 78), or Circular 78. It is not clear at this time whether Circular 78 covers only equity compensation plans which provide for the grant of stock options or any type of equity compensation plan, such as a plan which authorizes the grant of restricted share awards. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company such as our company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings by July 5, 2007 if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. Circular 78 has not yet been made publicly available or formally promulgated by SAFE, but it is our understanding that SAFE has begun enforcing its provisions. Nonetheless, we cannot predict whether it will continue to enforce this circular or adopt additional or different requirements with respect to equity compensation plans. If it is determined that our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity 26 Table of Contents compensation to our personnel, which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be materially adversely affected. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to our investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as a value-added telecommunication license and requisite business licenses. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, an outbreak of the H5N1 strain of bird flu (avian influenza) or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our revenue is derived, in Shanghai, where our operations are headquartered, and in Beijing, where our largest provincial office is located, could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, there has been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in China, where our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, • the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning in recent years to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: 27 Table of Contents • economic structure; • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions and paying dividends, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Recent Chinese regulations relating to acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign entities may limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies and adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy as well as our business and prospects. On October 21, 2005, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Notice 75 replaced the previous SAFE regulations relating to acquiring of Chinese companies by foreign entities. Notice 75 requires each PRC resident, whether a natural or legal person, to complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in China. In addition, an amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed by any PRC resident that directly or indirectly holds interests in that offshore company upon either (1) the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore company, or (2) the completion of any overseas fund raising by such offshore company. An amendment to the registration is also required to be filed by such PRC resident when there is any material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore company. 28 Table of Contents Moreover, Notice 75 applies retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in China in the past are required to complete the relevant overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures by March 31, 2006. To implement Notice 75, SAFE issued an implementation notice in May 2007, or Circular 106. Circular 106 specifies the circumstances under which PRC residents are required to comply with Notice 75 and the procedures of compliance. Under Circular 106, in the event a PRC resident failed to file for the relevant investment foreign exchange registration under Notice 75 by March 31, 2006 with respect to an overseas entity, any dividends remitted by the domestic subsidiary to such overseas entity since April 21, 2005 will be deemed as an evasion of foreign exchange purchase rules, and such act is illegal. The domestic company and its actual controlling person(s) may be imposed fined. In addition, under Circular 106, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in Notice 75 and Circular 106 may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore company, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. While we have not seen precedents SAFE penalized the violating parties, if the Circular 106 is fully implemented, failure to register with SAFE may significantly limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC, and the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rules established, among other things, additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance when a foreign investor acquires equity or assets of a PRC domestic enterprise. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. As it is presently uncertain how the SAFE regulations, New M&A Rules, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, we cannot predict how they will affect our business operations or future acquisition strategy. For example, our present and prospective Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be conditioned upon compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such Chinese residents, over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such Chinese residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations because we have no control over the outcome of the registration procedures. Such uncertainties may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. The value of our ordinary shares and ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our ordinary shares and ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. From 1994 to July 21, 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, was based on exchange rates published by the People’s Bank of China, which was set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and 29 Table of Contents current exchange rates on the world financial markets. During that period, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S dollars was generally stable. However, on July 21, 2005, as a result of the Renminbi being re-pegged to a basket of currencies, the Renminbi was revalued and appreciated against the U.S dollar. There can be no assurance that such exchange rate will continue to remain stable in the future. Our business and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could be negatively affected by a revaluation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or by other fluctuations in prevailing Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rates. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 