D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Risks Related to Our Contractual Relationships with the Mobile Operators in China We depend on the two principal mobile phone operators in China for delivery of almost all of our services, and the termination or alteration of our various contracts with either of them or their provincial or local affiliates could materially and adversely impact our business. We offer most of our wireless value-added services to consumers through the two principal mobile phone operators in China, China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, and China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, which service substantially all of China’s approximately 393.4 million mobile phone subscribers. As of April 2006, China Mobile had approximately 263.4 million subscribers, or 67% of the mobile phone service market in China, while China Unicom had approximately 130 million subscribers, or 33% of the mobile phone service market in China. Given their dominant market position, our negotiating leverage with these operators is limited. If our various contracts with either operator are terminated or adversely altered, it may be impossible to find appropriate replacement operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our services, and our business would be significantly impaired. For 2003, 2004 and 2005, we derived approximately 88.3%, 88.1% and 85.0%, respectively, of our total revenues, including all of our revenues for advanced second generation, or 2.5G, and audio-related services, from China Mobile and are, therefore, particularly dependent on that operator. Our services are provided pursuant to contracts that we have with the national offices of the mobile operators, as well as several of their provincial and local affiliates. Each of these contracts is non-exclusive, and has a limited term (generally one or two years). We usually renew these contracts or enter into new ones when the prior contracts expire, but on occasion the renewal or new contract can be delayed by periods of one month or more. The terms of these contracts vary, but the operators are generally entitled to terminate them in advance for a variety of reasons or, in some cases, for no reason in their discretion. For example, several of our contracts with the mobile operators can be terminated if: • we fail to achieve performance standards which are established by the applicable operator from time to time, • we breach our obligations under the contracts, which include, in many cases, the obligation not to deliver content that violates the operator’s policies and applicable law, and exclusivity provisions prohibiting us from offering services which are the same as the services we provide to any other telecommunications service providers, 4 Table of Contents • the operator receives high levels of customer complaints about our services, or • the operator sends us written notice that it wishes to terminate the contract at the end of the applicable notice period. Changes in the policies of the mobile operators and in their enforcement of their policies have resulted in our having to pay additional charges to the mobile operators, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue, profitability and financial condition in the future. The mobile operators in China have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the wireless value-added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the mobile operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality. In addition, the mobile operators have unilaterally changed the way such policies have been enforced as applied to third party service providers such as ourselves, and may do so again in the future. We often only become aware of such policy changes when the mobile operators inform us orally or provide us with a monthly statement indicating an additional charge, which in either case can happen months after the operating problem in question arose. Because of this time delay, we cannot always confirm the existence of such problems or correct errors in our systems in a timely manner. Beginning in April 2004, acting under the guidance of China’s Ministry of Information Industry, the mobile operators began enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and initiated steps to improve customer service. For example, the mobile operators have been less willing to permit service providers to engage in broad distributions of short messages (known as SMS) to promote their services, known as “SMS pushes,” which have been used to cross-sell higher-margin services, because of the concern that users may find such messages a nuisance. While we intend to seek approval from the mobile operators to engage in future SMS pushes, we cannot be certain that we will be granted permission to the extent we request, or at all. This rigorous enforcement, including the restrictions on SMS pushes, has resulted in a number of penalties being imposed on participants in the market. These penalties have included precluding such participants from offering certain services over the mobile operators’ networks or from offering new services for a fixed period. While we believe the mobile operators’ recent focus on compliance and service initiatives will result in a stronger, more orderly market in the long-term, it has also resulted in service and billing suspensions and in our having to pay certain charges due to the occasional contravention of certain of these policies by us. Specifically, we received a notice of sanction from China Mobile in December 2004 for violating its rules relating to the acquisition of users for our wireless application protocol, or WAP, services. As a result, we were not allowed to bill WAP users from January 1, 2005 until October 10, 2005. In addition, China Mobile suspended approval of any new product applications by us for its wireless platforms, including SMS, MMS, WAP, JAVA™, IVR and ringback, between January 1, 2005 and June 30, 2005. For 2005, the amount of fines was negligible, compared to $0.7 million for 2004. Because the mobile operators’ policies are in a state of flux at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to additional monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Our relationships with the mobile operators could be adversely affected in the long-term if we are perceived to be providing consistently poor quality services or weak customer service. Any non-compliance with the mobile operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial condition. 5 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if any of the mobile operators in China begin providing their own portfolio of wireless value-added services that compete with our services. The principal mobile operators in China currently offer a limited number of specific wireless value-added services, such as personal information management and instant messaging. However, they have not yet developed their own comprehensive portfolio of services. Our business may be adversely affected if any of the mobile operators in China decides to begin providing its own wireless value-added services to mobile phone users which compete with our services. In that case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but could be partially or fully denied access to their networks. Our revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay the mobile operators for their share of service fees not paid by customers due to service quality or other problems. If a customer refuses to pay for a wireless value-added service due to quality or other problems attributable to the service provider, the mobile operators have generally not required the service provider to pay them for their portion of the service fees that were lost as a result of the customer’s refusal to pay. However, China Unicom’s affiliate in Fujian province requires us and other service providers to reimburse it for these amounts in connection with our SMS services provided in that province. If any of the mobile operators in China adopts such a policy in other provinces and we cannot maintain high levels of service quality and customer service, we may have to pay significant amounts of service fees for which we receive no corresponding revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We depend on the mobile operators to maintain accurate records and to pay us for services we provide. We depend on the mobile operators to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and to pay us for services we provide. Specifically, the mobile operators provide us with monthly statements that do not provide itemized information regarding which of our services are being paid for. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the mobile operators cannot be reconciled to our own internal records for the reasons discussed below under the heading “— Because the mobile operators do not supply us with revenue and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of services by service type, and as a result, which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance.” In addition, we have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us in this regard because we do not have access to the mobile operators’ internal records. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if these mobile phone operators miscalculate the revenue generated from our services and our portion of that revenue. Our revenues and cost of services are affected by billing and transmission failures which are often beyond our control. We do not collect fees for our services from the mobile operators in a number of circumstances, including if: • the delivery of our service to a customer is prevented because his or her phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has run out of value or the customer has ceased to be a customer of the applicable operator, 6 Table of Contents • the mobile operator experiences technical problems with its network which prevent the delivery of our services to the customer, • we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevents delivery of our services, or • the customer refuses to pay for our service due to quality or other problems. These situations are known in the industry as billing and transmission failures, and we do not recognize any revenue for services which are characterized as billing and transmission failures. The failure rate can vary among the operators, and by province, and also has fluctuated significantly in the past, ranging on a monthly basis from 10% to 53% of the total billable messages which are reflected in our internal records during 2005. For 2005, the rate of billing and transmission failures for our services averaged approximately 39% of the total billable messages. Billing and transmission failures therefore will significantly lower the revenue we record. We are also required to pay some of our content providers a percentage of the revenue received from or confirmed by the mobile operators with respect to services incorporating the content providers’ products. In calculating the fees payable to these providers, we make estimates to take into account billing and transmission failures which may have been applicable to the services incorporating the providers’ products, and reduce the fees payable by us accordingly. Nonetheless, as estimates involve making assumptions which may prove inaccurate, we have in the past paid, and may continue to pay, such providers fees which are disproportionate to what we have been paid for the relevant service. Because the mobile operators do not supply us with revenue and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and our cost of services by service type, and as a result, which of our services are or may be profitable, all of which make it difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance. China Mobile and China Unicom provide us with separate monthly statements for our SMS, 2.5G and audio-related services. However, the monthly statements of the operators with respect to each such service category do not contain revenue and billing and transmission failure information on a specific service-by-service basis. Although we maintain our own records reporting the services provided, we can only estimate our actual gross revenue and cost of services by service type because we are unable to confirm which services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures. As a result, we are not able to definitively calculate and monitor service-by-service revenue, margins and other financial information, such as average revenue per user by service and total revenue per user by service, and also cannot definitively determine which of our services are or may be profitable. The mobile operators may impose higher service or network fees on us if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria. Fees for our wireless value-added services are charged on a monthly subscription or per use basis. Based on our contractual arrangements, we rely on the mobile operators for both billing of, and collection from, mobile phone users of fees for our services. China Mobile generally charges us service fees of 15% to 30% of the revenues generated by our services. China Unicom has implemented a sliding scale system whereby the percentage of gross revenue received by the service provider can range from 40% to 88% depending on customer usage, revenue and other performance criteria. In 2005, we received on average 71% of the gross revenue from China Unicom. Moreover, to the extent that the number of messages sent by us over China Mobile’s network, and over China Unicom’s network in most provinces, exceeds the number of messages our customers 7 Table of Contents send to us, we must pay per message network fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of our services increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our users, for example, if a user sends us a single message to order a game but we in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that we will be able to satisfy these criteria in the future or that the mobile operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. Any future increase in the mobile operators’ network fees and service charges could reduce our gross margins. The mobile operators may not authorize our services to be offered on their networks if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria imposed or revised by the mobile operators at their discretion from time to time. The mobile operators, through their provincial and local offices, have historically preferred to work only with a small group of the best performing wireless value-added service providers, based upon the uniqueness of the service offered by each provider, total number of users, usage and revenue generated in the applicable province or municipality, the rate of customer complaints, and marketing expenditures in the applicable province or municipality. In the future, we may fail to meet the then current performance criteria that the mobile operators set from time to time. In any such case, our services could be excluded from their networks at a provincial, municipal or national level, or we could be precluded from introducing new services, which would adversely affect our revenues and growth prospects. If China Mobile and China Unicom do not change their policies regarding how service selections appear on their WAP portals, we may have difficulty increasing the popularity of our WAP services, which could adversely affect our future revenue growth and profitability. The WAP portals of both China Mobile and China Unicom are organized much like the pages of an Internet Web site, with the services of third party service providers such as our company listed by category on various segregated WAP pages within each operator’s WAP portal. China Mobile and China Unicom currently place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. As users tend to pick from the first services they see on a WAP page, rather than scrolling through page after page, prominent positioning tends to reinforce the position of the most popular services. Because other service providers who entered the market for WAP services before we did have already established strong positions on the WAP menus of the mobile operators, in particular, KongZhong Corporation with respect to China Mobile’s WAP portal, and Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. with respect to China Unicom’s WAP portal, we may have difficulty building up the popularity of our various WAP services and thereby enhancing their positioning on the WAP menus, unless the mobile operators change their WAP placement policies. Our failure to increase the popularity of our WAP services could adversely affect our future revenue growth and profitability. The services we offer and the prices we charge are subject to approval by the mobile operators, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We must obtain approval from the mobile operators with respect to each service that we propose to offer to their customers and the pricing for such service. In addition, any changes in the pricing of our existing services must be approved in advance by these operators. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, under all of our contracts with China Mobile and most of our contracts with China Unicom, we cannot change prices more than once every six months or charge prices outside of a fixed range. Failure to obtain, or a delay in, obtaining such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our business. In addition, 8 Table of Contents the mobile operators’ recent more rigorous enforcement of their customer service policies may result in stricter scrutiny of our proposed services and pricing by the mobile operators, which may in turn delay the approval process or result in disapproval of such proposed services or pricing. Additional Risks Related to Our Company We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business. We began commercially offering wireless value-added services in China in August 2000, and since that time, the technologies and services used in the wireless value-added services industry in China have developed rapidly. As a result of this rapid and continual change in the industry, you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development. These risks include our ability to: • attract and retain users for our wireless value-added services, especially for our 2.5G and audio-related services, • our ability to expand the content and services that we offer and, in particular, develop and aggregate innovative new content and service offerings, and sources of revenues which are not dependent on the mobile operators, • respond effectively to rapidly evolving competitive and market dynamics and address the effects of mergers and acquisitions among our competitors, • migrate existing users to subscription-based offerings, including our 2.5G and audio-related services, in order to build a large and stable user base and generate recurring revenue, • maintain, expand and enhance our relationships with international media companies and other strategic partners, and • increase awareness of our brand and user loyalty. Due to these factors, there can be no certainty that we will maintain or increase our current share of the highly competitive market in which we operate. Several of our senior managers have worked together for a relatively short period of time, and they may not prove as effective as anticipated. Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer joined our company in 2003 and 2005, respectively. Accordingly, they have worked together at our company for a relatively short period of time. Due to the fact that our senior managers joined our company only recently and have relatively limited experience working with each other, it is difficult to predict how successful they will be, and our management team may not be as effective as anticipated. Our business strategy may not be realized to its full extent and our business may suffer if these senior managers cannot work together as a team. 9 Table of Contents The success of some of our services is significantly dependent on our ability to obtain, customize and localize desirable content and technology from third parties. We are increasingly obtaining much of our content, including wireless games, logos, music, news and other information, from third parties. Furthermore, we expect that we will license technology in connection with our development of next generation services such as MMS and JavaTM. As the market for wireless value-added services develops, content and technology providers may attempt to increase their profits from these distribution and localization arrangements by demanding a greater share of revenue or other fees, which would adversely affect our financial performance. Many of our arrangements with content and technology providers are non-exclusive, short-term and subject to renewal. If our competitors are able to provide such content in a similar or superior manner or to license the same technologies, it could adversely affect the popularity of our services and our negotiating leverage with third party providers. In addition, we must often invest significant resources in customizing and localizing the content and applications we license or purchase for the Chinese wireless market. This may include work ranging from translating the content or application interface into Chinese to performing significant development work to utilize the particular content or application. If we fail to establish and maintain economically attractive relationships with content and technology providers and to thereafter successfully customize and localize their products, we may not be able to attract and retain users or maintain or improve our financial performance. We began to recognize revenue for our services on an accrual basis beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2003, which involves the use of estimates of monthly revenue to the extent we are unable to obtain actual figures from the mobile operators before we finalize our financial statements. This could in turn require us to make adjustments to our financial statements. Our financial statements through September 30, 2003 reflect our actual revenues as they appear on the operators’ statements. However, for subsequent quarters, we recognized revenue earned on an accrual basis and plan to do so in future quarters if necessary in order to report our earnings on a timely basis. This involves the use of estimates of monthly revenue based on our internal records for the month and prior monthly confirmation rates with the operators in prior months if we are unable to obtain actual figures from the operators before we finalize our financial statements. Actual revenue may differ from prior estimates when unexpected variations in billing and transmission failures occur. Recognizing revenue on an accrual basis could potentially require us to later make adjustments to our financial statements if the operators’ billing statements and cash payments are different from our estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation and the price of our ADSs. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, approximately 6.2%, 3.0% and 2.0%, respectively, of our gross revenues were based on such estimates. However, we are focusing on increasing sales of our wireless value-added services through the Personal Handyphone System, or PHS, and Personal Access System, or PAS, networks of China Telecom Group, or China Telecom, and China Netcom Corporation Ltd., or China Netcom, and sales of our audio related services to fixed line customers of China Telecom and China Netcom, which have recently begun to offer value-added services and have not implemented comprehensive billing systems. We are also focused on increasing sales in less economically developed provinces in the central and western parts of China where the provincial offices of the mobile operators often have not implemented comprehensive billing systems for wireless value-added services. As a result, we have on occasion received monthly statements from China Telecom and China Netcom and certain provincial operators of China Mobile and China Unicom in less economically developed provinces significantly later than China Mobile and China Unicom provincial 10 Table of Contents operators in more economically developed provinces. This in turn tends to increase the portion of our revenue that we must estimate for a given quarter. At the same time, China Mobile has completed the implementation of new billing systems in all provinces in China while China Unicom has implemented similar systems in substantially all provinces. The information provided to third party service providers such as our company under these new systems is less detailed in certain respects than before, making revenue estimations somewhat more difficult. Our management and board of directors have evaluated the effect of these trends on our methodology for making revenue estimates. Although we have no plans to do so currently, it is possible that it may be necessary in the future for us to extend the time between the end of a fiscal quarter and the announcement of our earnings for that quarter to obtain additional monthly confirmation statements. Such an extension could result in our having to announce earnings after our normally scheduled earnings release date, which could potentially adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Moreover, we may have to make additional adjustments to our estimation methodology in the future, which could result in unexpected discrepancies in estimates, or to stop making estimations. We face intense competition. The Chinese market for wireless value-added services is intensely competitive, and is changing rapidly. We compete principally with three groups of wireless value-added service providers in China: • dedicated service providers such as Linktone, whose business focus is to offer a variety of wireless content directly to mobile users, • the national Internet portal operators in China, which offer Internet access and content aggregation services on a nationwide basis in addition to wireless services, and • niche service providers, which focus primarily on a particular market segment or application that often builds on a pre-existing sector competency. We have faced competition from service providers in the three groups described above since our entry into this market. We may also face significant competition from other parties, including companies which offer online services and are expanding to various degrees into wireless value-added services, such as Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited, which primarily focuses on Internet-based games but has also begun to offer wireless games. Moreover, there are low barriers to entry for new competitors in the wireless value-added services market, particularly for 2G services. Several of our competitors have longer operating histories in China, greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and databases, significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and superior access to original content than we have. As a result, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenues. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the relatively wealthier coastal and southern provinces in China, and the termination or alteration of our contracts with the mobile operators or a general economic downturn in those areas could have a particularly adverse effect on our business. Per capita income levels and mobile phone penetration rates (i.e., the number of mobile subscribers divided by the population of China) in China are generally higher in the coastal and southern provinces, such as Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning, and Zhejiang provinces, as well as the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing, which are among our top revenue generating locales. 11 Table of Contents As noted above, there are numerous, often highly-subjective bases on which the mobile operators have the right to terminate our contracts with them. Moreover, our contracts with China Mobile for Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning and Zhejiang provinces and the municipalities of Shanghai and Beijing can be terminated in the discretion of either contracting party upon 15 to 30 days notice, depending on the contract. If these contracts are terminated or adversely altered or there is a general economic downturn in those areas, our business could be adversely affected. We cannot predict whether there will be a termination of our contracts with affiliates of the mobile operators in significant provinces in the future. We have incurred net losses for a significant portion of our history which could occur again. We incurred significant net losses until the first quarter of 2003. We could incur significant net losses in the future due to changes in the market, operating environment and competitive dynamics and our ability to respond to those changes. If we do not sustain profitability, the market price of our ADSs may decline. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Michael Guangxin Li, our chief executive officer, and Colin Sung, our chief financial officer. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our executive officers. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving our company is high and could disrupt our operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As our user base increases, we will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, customer service and sales and marketing which are important to our future success. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services and our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. For example, any such performance issue could prompt the mobile operators to cease offering our services over their networks. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • develop and quickly introduce new services, adapt our existing services and maintain and improve the quality of all of our services, particularly as new mobile technologies such as 2.5G and 3G are introduced, • effectively maintain our relationships with the mobile operators, 12 Table of Contents • expand the percentage of our revenues which are recurring and are derived from monthly subscription based services, • develop sources of revenue which are not dependent on the mobile operators, • enter into and maintain relationships with desirable content providers, • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management, some of whom have been with our company for less than one year, • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls, and • maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Any failures of the mobile telecommunications network, the Internet or our technology platform may reduce use of our services. Both the continual accessibility of the networks of the mobile operators in China and the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure are critical to our ability to attract and retain users. Moreover, our business depends on our ability to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. The servers which constitute the principal system hardware for our operations are located in three locations in Shanghai, three locations in Beijing and one location in Jiangsu and one location each in Zhejiang, Guizhou, Hebei and Hunan. We maintain backup system hardware in our offices in Shanghai and Beijing, but cannot be certain such backup will be adequate if there are problems with our primary system hardware. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures caused by sustained power shutdowns, floods or fire causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware equipment, or other events outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of the mobile networks, the Internet or our technology platform, could adversely impact our ability to provide our services to users and decrease our revenues. If our exclusive providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services or increase their prices, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on affiliates of China Telecom and China Netcom to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for our services pursuant to contracts which have one-year terms, in the case of China Telecom, or are terminable at the discretion of either party, in the case of China Netcom, and are usually in the standard forms of the respective service provider. If China Telecom, China Netcom or their respective affiliates fail to provide such services, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to find a substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom, China Netcom or their respective affiliates. If China Telecom, China Netcom or their respective affiliates fail to provide these services or raise their prices, our business could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Our corporate structure could be deemed to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws and regulations which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. In connection with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, foreign investment in telecommunications and Internet services in China was liberalized to allow for up to 30.0% foreign ownership in value-added telecommunication and Internet services in 2002, 49.0% in 2003 and 50.0% thereafter. In order to meet these ownership requirements, as of December 31, 2005, we maintained control over the following PRC affiliated companies: (i) Shanghai Weilan Computer Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Weilan”), which is 50% owned by each of two of our shareholders, Ankai Hu and Dong Li; (ii) Shanghai Unilink Company Ltd. (“Shanghai Unilink”), which is 50% owned by our Vice President of Product Development, Jing Wang, and 50% owned by our former Vice President of Business Development, Wei Long, each of whose equity interests in Shanghai Unilink are in the process of being transferred to our Financial Controller, Jinhua Yuan, and our Human Resource Manager, Rong Zhang, respectively; (iii) Shenzhen Yuan Hang Technology Co., Ltd. (“Shenzhen Yuanhang”), which is 50% owned by our Vice President of Business Development, Yan Ma, and 50% owned by our Financial Controller, Jinhua Yuan; (iv) Beijing Cosmos Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Comos”), which is 50% owned by our Human Resource Manager, Rong Zhang, and 50% owned by our Product Development Manager, Teng Zhao; (v) Hainan Zhong Tong Computer Network Co., Ltd. (“Hainan Zhong Tong”), which is 50% owned by our Financial Controller, Jinhua Yuan, and 50% owned our Product Development Manager, Teng Zhao; (vi) Beijing Lian Fei Wireless Communications Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Lian Fei”), which is 50% owned by our Vice President of Business Development, Yan Ma, and 50% owned by our Human Resource Manager, Rong Zhang; and (vii) Shanghai Qimingxing E-commerce Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Qimingxing”), which is 50% owned by our Financial Controller, Jinhua Yuan, and 50% owned by our Technical Senior Manager, Xingyong Ding. We hold no ownership interest in those companies. It is possible that the relevant Chinese authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion of or all of the existing or future ownership structure and businesses of us, any of our wholly owned subsidiaries, or any of our PRC affiliated companies, violate existing or future Chinese laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the telecommunication or Internet sectors in China that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our, our wholly owned subsidiaries’ or our PRC affiliated companies’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, these new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied. In any such case, we could be required to restructure our operations which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities. At December 31, 2005, we had provided long-term interest free loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately RMB69.7 million ($8.4 million) to shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities for the purpose of investing in our affiliated Chinese entities as registered capital and to make payments to the selling shareholders from whom we acquired certain of our affiliated Chinese entities for settlement of purchase price consideration pursuant to applicable acquisition agreements. The term of these loans in each case is 10 years. The shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities can only repay the loans by transferring to us or our designees all of their equity interest in the respective affiliated Chinese entity. Please refer to the table under Item 5 of this annual report under the heading “Arrangements with Consolidated Affiliates — Loan Agreements.” We expect that we will continue to be involved in and provide additional financial support in the future to the extent allowed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable laws. Because of uncertainty associated with Chinese law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. 14 Table of Contents We depend upon contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities for the success of our business. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our business only in China, and because we are restricted by the Chinese government from owning telecommunications or Internet operations in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, Shanghai Weilan, Shanghai Unilink, Shenzhen Yuanhang, Beijing Cosmos, Hainan Zhong Tong, Beijing Lian Fei and Shanghai Qimingxing, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements with the mobile operators. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our telecommunications or Internet operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, Shanghai Weilan or Shanghai Unilink could fail to take actions required to operate our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or service contracts with the mobile operators in China. Moreover, the fees for our services are paid by the mobile operators directly to Shanghai Weilan and Shanghai Unilink, which are then obligated at our request to transfer substantially all of such fees to our wholly owned subsidiaries, Shanghai Linktone Consulting Co., Ltd. (“Linktone Consulting”), Shanghai Huitong Information Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Huitong”) and Shanghai Linktone Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (“Linktone Internet”). If Shanghai Weilan or Shanghai Unilink fail to perform their obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot assure you would be effective or sufficient. We generate our internal funds almost exclusively from our subsidiaries. If those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, we may lose almost all of our internal source of funds. We are a holding company with assets consisting primarily of cash generated from our initial public offering in March 2004 and our equity interests in Linktone Consulting, Shanghai Huitong, Linktone Internet, Brilliant Concept Investments Ltd. (“Brilliant”), Wang You Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (“Wang You”), and Linktone Software Co., Ltd. (“Linktone Software”). Our internal source of funds has been derived almost exclusively from dividend payments from those entities after they receive payments from our PRC affiliated companies. We are likely to lose all of our source of funds if those entities are restricted from paying dividends to us, except for interest and dividend we earned on our fixed deposits and short term investments which totaled $23,000 in 2003, $752,000 in 2004 and $1,880,000 in 2005. Under current Chinese tax regulations, dividends paid to us are not subject to Chinese withholding tax. However, Chinese legal restrictions permit payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations, which in turn restricts our ability to receive these revenues. The principal differences between net income under Chinese accounting standards and U.S. GAAP relate to stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Stock-based compensation and deferred taxes are not recognized under Chinese accounting standards. Under Chinese law, Linktone Consulting, Shanghai Huitong, Linktone Internet, Wang You and Linktone Software are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are established to offset losses and for other general purposes under Chinese law and they are not distributable as cash dividends. If further restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiaries are implemented under Chinese law, our revenues could decrease significantly. 15 Table of Contents If any of our subsidiaries incurs any debt, it could impact our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and harm our reputation. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect our systems against the threat of such computer viruses and hacking and to rectify any damage to our systems. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking which affects our systems is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. Our revenues fluctuate significantly and may adversely impact the trading price of our ADSs or any other securities which become publicly traded. Our revenues and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control. Steady revenues and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: • attract and retain users in the increasingly competitive wireless value-added services market in China, • expand the percentage of our revenues which are recurring and are derived from monthly subscription based services, • successfully implement our business strategies, and • update and develop our services, technologies and content, including aggregating, customizing and localizing third party technologies and content for the China market. Because the wireless value-added services industry in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving and our business is also relatively new and has experienced significant volatility in terms of financial results as a result of the factors stated above, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. We may be held liable for information displayed on or retrieved from our service offerings. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are provided via our wireless value-added services. For example, we could be subject to defamation claims for messages posted on our services that allow chatting, or SMS news updates sent to users by us could possibly be deemed to contain state secrets in violation of applicable Chinese law. In addition, third parties could assert claims against us 16 Table of Contents for losses incurred in reliance on information distributed by us. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have registered 90 trademarks with China’s Trademark Office and one trademark in each of Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. We are in the process of applying for 36 additional trademarks in China and two trademarks in the United States. We have also obtained 21 copyright certificates in China for certain cartoons and images and 26 copyright certificates for computer software. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be effective to prevent unauthorized parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology and content, particularly in China where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. For example, competitors could copy one or more of our downloadable icons, and we may not become aware of the infringement in a timely manner or at all or be able to take effective action to enforce our rights. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Moreover, while business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and cost of the insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Selective acquisitions, such as our recent acquisitions of Beijing Cosmos, Brilliant, Hainan Zhong Tong, Beijing Lian Fei and Shanghai Qimingxing, form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional businesses, technologies, services or products which are complementary to our core wireless value-added services business. The companies we recently acquired may not perform as well as we expect, and have required significant attention from our management, in particular to ensure that the acquisitions do not disrupt our relationships with the mobile operators in China, or affect our users’ opinion of our services and customer support and are effectively integrated with our existing operations and wireless value-added services. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Acquisitions expose us to 17 Table of Contents potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new operations, services and personnel, ensuring effective internal controls with respect to acquired businesses, the extent to which acquired businesses give rise to unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and content providers as a result of integration of new businesses. Given the sophisticated technologies used in the wireless value-added services industry, the successful, cost-effective integration of other businesses’ technology platforms and services into our own is also a critical, and highly complex, aspect of any acquisition. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company by the United States Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a passive foreign investment company is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. tax purposes if 50.0% or more of our assets, based on an annual quarterly average, are passive assets, or 75.0% or more of our annual gross income is derived from passive assets. We have determined that virtually all of our income for 2003, 2004 and 2005 was active income under the gross income test. However, as cash and cash equivalents (which constitute passive assets for passive foreign investment company testing purposes) have comprised a significant percentage of our assets (based on U.S. GAAP) in the past, the determination whether we were a passive foreign investment company in prior years or will be a passive foreign investment company in the future will depend on the valuation of our intangible assets (including goodwill and going concern value) which are not reflected in our financial statements. We did not obtain an appraisal of our intangible assets for passive foreign investment company testing purposes for prior periods, but we believe that the value of these intangibles exceeds the amount of our cash and cash equivalents. Our judgment is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. Following the completion of our initial public offering in March 2004, the valuation of our intangible assets has been based, in part, on the market value of our ADSs, which is subject to change. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by the cash we raised in our initial public offering and how such cash has been spent. We cannot assure you that we will not be a passive foreign investment company for the current or any future taxable year. See Item 5. “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated articles of association, include provisions which could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include a classified board of directors. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute a potential hostile acquirer’s ownership interest in our company, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. 18 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as applicable, that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Management may not conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective. For example, in February 2006, after consulting with the Audit Committee, we decided to restate our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of an error related to the accounting for stock options. Also, in connection with the audit of our 2005 financial statements, we identified several areas of our internal controls over financial reporting that are classified as material weaknesses, significant deficiencies or control deficiencies in accordance with AU 325, Communication About Control Deficiencies in An Audit of Financial Statements, of PCAOB Standards and Related Rules, see “Item 15 – Controls and Procedures.” Even if these and any other issues that may arise in the future are addressed and our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if such firm is not satisfied with our internal control over our financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if such firm interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our ability to generate revenues could suffer if the Chinese market for wireless value-added services does not develop as anticipated. The wireless value-added services market in China has evolved rapidly over the last four years, with the introduction of new services, development of consumer preferences, market entry by new competitors and adaptation of strategies by existing competitors. We expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in our market. In particular, we are currently focused on establishing a wide range of wireless value-added services for mobile phone handsets using 2.5G technologies. There can be no assurance, however, that these 2.5G technologies and any services compatible with them will continue to be accepted by consumers or promoted by the mobile operators. Moreover, there are numerous other technologies in varying stages of development, such as 3G mobile technologies, which could radically alter or even eliminate the market for SMS or 2.5G services. 19 Table of Contents Accordingly, it is extremely difficult to accurately predict consumer acceptance and demand for various existing and potential new offerings and services, and the future size, composition and growth of this market. Furthermore, given the limited history and rapidly evolving nature of our market, we cannot predict the price that wireless subscribers will be willing to pay for our services or whether subscribers will have concerns about security, reliability, cost and quality of service associated with wireless services. If acceptance of our wireless value-added services is different than anticipated, our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and profits could be materially and adversely affected. The Chinese government or one or more of the mobile operators may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that any of them believe is inappropriate. China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers, Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the Chinese government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any Web site maintained outside China at its sole discretion. The mobile operators in China also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by wireless value-added service providers and have punished certain providers for distributing content deemed by them to be obscene. Such punishments have included censoring of content, delays in payments of fees by the mobile operators to the offending service provider, restrictions on the ability of the service provider to bill for its services and suspension of the service on the mobile operators’ networks. Accordingly, even if we comply with Chinese governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the Chinese government or one or more of the mobile operators were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users, our revenues could be reduced and our reputation harmed. Telecommunication laws and regulations in China are evolving and subject to interpretation and may change in the future. If we are found to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Although wireless value-added services are subject to general regulations regarding telecommunication services, we believe that currently, there are few Chinese laws at the national level specifically explicitly governing wireless value-added services, such as our services related to SMS, MMS and WAP. Many providers of wireless value-added services have obtained various value-added telecommunication services licenses. Although Shanghai Weilan, Shanghai Unilink, Beijing Cosmos, Hainan Zhong Tong, Beijing Lian Fei and Shanghai Qimingxing have obtained value-added telecommunication services licenses issued by the Shanghai Municipal Telecommunications Administration Bureau, or Shanghai Communication Administration, and national inter-provincial value-added telecommunication licenses in accordance with the Ministry of Information Industry’s general regulations regarding telecommunication services, we cannot be certain that other local or national value-added telecommunication services license requirements will be required or will conflict with each other or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of this category of service. It is also possible that new national legislation might be adopted to regulate such services. 20 Table of Contents If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations regarding wireless value-added services or Internet access which is discussed in the following risk factor, the relevant Chinese authorities have the power to, among other things: • levy fines and prohibit new product and service offerings; • confiscate our income or the income of our subsidiaries and affiliates; • revoke our business license or the business license of our subsidiaries and affiliates; • shut down our servers or the servers of our subsidiaries and affiliates and/or blocking any Web sites that we operate; and • require us to discontinue any portion or all of our wireless value-added services business. The regulation of Internet Web site operators is also unclear in China, and our business could be adversely affected if we are deemed to have violated applicable laws and regulations. Our affiliate, Shanghai Weilan, operates Internet Web sites in China, which are one of the channels through which our services are offered. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, the Ministry of Information Industry, and the possibility of new laws, regulations or policy positions being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies with Internet operations including those of our company. In particular, the Ministry of Information Industry has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various Chinese government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the local Shanghai Municipal Telecommunications Administration Bureau and held by Shanghai Weilan or any value-added telecommunication license held by Shanghai Weilan, Shanghai Unilink, Beijng Cosmos, Hainan Zhong Tong, Beijing Lian Fei or Shanghai Qimingxing will satisfy these requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable Chinese Internet regulations could subject us to severe penalties as noted in the prior risk factor. The Chinese government is expected to grant regional or national licenses to offer full mobility wireless services in China to China Telecom, China Netcom and possibly other parties with which we have not yet developed close relationships. If those parties receive licenses and are successful in the market but we are unable to develop cooperative relationships with them, our business could be adversely affected. It is anticipated that the Chinese government will grant regional or national licenses to offer full mobility wireless services in China to China Telecom, China Netcom and possibly other parties, although the timing of such grants is unclear. We began providing SMS services over the fixed line networks of China Telecom and China Netcom in September 2004, and have launched audio related services over the fixed line networks and the limited mobility PHS and PAS networks operated by those operators. Limited mobility networks provide a limited range of mobile phone services to a group of users within a designated geographic area such as a single city. Our relationships with these mobile operators are not, however, as developed as our relationships with China Mobile and China Unicom. As a result, if those parties receive regional or national wireless licenses and are successful in the market but we are unable to develop cooperative relationships with them, our business could be adversely affected if they take market share for wireless value-added services from China Mobile and China Unicom. It is also possible that China Telecom, China Netcom and any other parties receiving wireless licenses may decide to offer 21 Table of Contents wireless value-added services created by them, rather than by third party service providers such as our company. In that case, we would be in direct competition with those operators, and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively against them. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A slow-down in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any slow down will not have a negative effect on our business. Several years ago, the Chinese economy experienced deflation, which may reoccur in the foreseeable future. In addition, the Chinese government recently began using macroeconomic tools to slow the rate of Chinese economic growth, the results of which are difficult to predict. The Chinese economy overall affects our profitability as expenditures for wireless value-added services may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. More specifically, increased penetration of wireless value-added services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of China will depend on potential customers in those provinces achieving certain income levels so that mobile handsets and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome. Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become more burdensome. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. In addition to new laws and regulations, existing laws not currently applicable to the wireless value-added services may be applied to those services in the future. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to our investors. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as a value-added telecommunication license and requisite business licenses. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, an outbreak of the H5N1 strain of bird flu (avian influenza) or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our revenue is derived, and in Shanghai, where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, there has been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries which have proven fatal in 22 Table of Contents some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in the PRC, where our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, • the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning in recent years to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: • economic structure; • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions and paying dividends, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those 23 Table of Contents banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Recent Chinese regulations relating to acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign entities may limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies and adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy as well as our business and prospects. On October 21, 2005, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Notice 75 replaced the previous SAFE regulations relating to acquiring of Chinese companies by foreign entities. Notice 75 requires each PRC resident, whether a natural or legal person, to complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in the PRC. In addition, an amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed by any PRC resident that directly or indirectly holds interests in that offshore company upon either (1) the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore company, or (2) the completion of any overseas fund raising by such offshore company. An amendment to the registration is also required to be filed by such PRC resident when there is any material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore company. Moreover, Notice 75 applies retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in the PRC in the past are required to complete the relevant overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures by March 31, 2006. Under the relevant rules, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in Notice 75 may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore company, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. As it is presently uncertain how the SAFE regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, we cannot predict how they will affect our business operations or future acquisition strategy. For example, our present and prospective Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be conditioned upon compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such Chinese residents, over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such Chinese residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations because we have no control over the outcome of the registration procedures. With respect to our recent acquisitions of Brilliant and Beijing Cosmos or any future acquisitions of Chinese companies, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such Chinese companies, each as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approvals, filings and registrations required by the regulations or other legislation. Such uncertainties may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. 24 Table of Contents The value of our ordinary shares and ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our ordinary shares and ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. From 1994 to July 21, 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, was based on exchange rates published by the People’s Bank of China, which was set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. During that period, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S dollars was generally stable. However, on July 21, 2005, as a result of the Renminbi being re-pegged to a basket of currencies, the Renminbi was revalued and appreciated against the U.S dollar. There can be no assurance that such exchange rate will continue to remain stable in the future. Our business and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could be negatively affected by a revaluation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or by other fluctuations in prevailing Renminbi-U.S. dollar exchange rates. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 