D. RISK FACTORS We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We depend on independent distributors, independent sales organizations, value-added resellers and payment processors to sell or rent our products. If these parties do not succeed in selling or renting our products, or if we are not able to maintain our relationships with them, our revenues and income will decline. We sell a significant portion of our products through third parties such as independent distributors, independent sales organizations, value-added resellers, financial institutions and payment processors that are not under our direct control. We are dependent on their active marketing and sales efforts to convince their customers or end-users to purchase or rent. our products. These third parties also provide after-sales support and related services to end-user customers. Typically, our arrangements with these third parties do not prevent them from selling products of other companies, including our competitors. As a result, they may not successfully sell or rent our product offerings or they may give higher priority to products of other companies. We also may not be able to maintain our existing relationships with these third parties. If one or more of our major third-party sellers terminates or otherwise adversely changes their relationship with us, we may be unsuccessful in replacing them. The loss of one of our major third-party sellers could impair our ability to sell or rent our products and result in lower revenues and income. We depend on a small number of large customers and the loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant decrease in sales to any of these customers, could significantly reduce our revenues and income. A significant portion of our revenues have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, from substantial purchases made by a limited number of customers, including distributors, independent sales organizations and financial institutions. In 2005, we derived approximately 26.2% of our revenues from our four largest customers and 46.3% of our revenues from our ten largest customers. In 2004, we derived approximately 26.8% of our revenues from our four largest customers and 52.0% of our revenues from our ten largest customers. Our significant customers are not required to purchase minimum quantities under their agreements with us and we cannot be sure that our large customers will continue to purchase products from us. Based on our experience, our largest customers may change from period to period. If any of our large customers significantly reduces or delays purchases from us or if we are required to sell products to them at reduced prices, our revenues and income could be materially adversely affected. 4 The market for our products is highly competitive and these competitive pressures may result in lower prices or reduced demand for our products. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect it to increase. Some of our competitors are more established, enjoy greater market recognition and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Our principal competitors in the market for electronic transaction systems include Ingenico, VeriFone and Hypercom. In addition, we also compete frequently with Axalto, a division of SchlumbergerSema, Sagem and Thales e-transactions, as well as local competitors in certain regions where we operate. These competitors and others may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements or benefit from greater economies of scale. They compete with us in some cases by offering more aggressive pricing or devoting greater resources to product marketing than we do. This competition may result in lower prices or reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our gross margins, which may impair our ability to maintain profitability. Competitive pricing in Turkey, Brazil, India and the U.S. has negatively impacted our gross margins and we expect pricing competition in these and other markets to continue. We also may face additional competition if new participants enter the markets in which we operate. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key components and therefore the loss of one or more of these suppliers could cause production delays, a reduction of revenues or an increase in costs. We currently purchase some key components used in our products from only one source and purchase others from only a limited number of sources. For example, we currently depend upon a single manufacturer, Philips Semiconductors, to manufacture our proprietary application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, for our NURIT product line and upon Arrow UK for the supply of microprocessors for our Dione suite of products. If either of these suppliers is unable to produce the quantities of ASICs or microprocessors we require, we would be faced with a shortage of critical components. We also experience from time to time an increase in the lead time for delivery of some of our key components. We may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner if suppliers of our key components become unwilling or unable to provide us with adequate supplies of these key components when we need them or increase their prices. In addition, we usually build one plastic injection mold to make the plastic casings for each of our products. If the plastic injection mold used to manufacture the plastic casing of a particular product is damaged or destroyed, our ability to deliver that product in a timely manner will be adversely affected. The inability to obtain sufficient key components as required, or to develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, or to replace our plastic injection molds in a timely manner if they are damaged or destroyed, could cause delays or reductions in product shipments. This could cause our relationships with customers to suffer and our revenues to decline. Even if we are able to secure alternative sources for components or replace our plastic injection molds in a timely manner, our costs could increase. We depend on our manufacturing and warehouse facilities in Israel. If manufacturing at these facilities is interrupted for any reason, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We assemble and test a majority of our NURIT products and some of our Dione products at our manufacturing facility located in Israel. Component and finished product inventories are also stored at this facility. Disruption of the manufacturing process at this facility or damage to it, whether as a result of fire, natural disaster, act of war, terrorist attack or otherwise, could materially affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We depend upon third parties to manufacture some of our products. Although we plan to begin manufacturing these products in our own facility in the future, we cannot be certain that this will be accomplished in a timely and cost effective manner. We do not manufacture a majority of the products that are designed by Dione, our subsidiary based in the U.K. Most of Dione’s products were manufactured for us in 2005 by a single third party. 5 Our agreement with this third party is not long term. If this manufacturer becomes unwilling or unable to provide us with adequate supplies of Dione products when we need them, or if it increases its prices, we might not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner and could be faced with a shortage of products. This could harm our relationships with our customers and cause our revenues to decline. Even if we are able to secure alternative sources in a timely manner, our costs could increase. We began manufacturing some of Dione’s products at our Israeli manufacturing facility during 2005. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationship with the third party manufacturer or if the potential transfer of the manufacturing to our own facilities proves to be more complicated, costly or ultimately not feasible, this could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, this manufacturer is part of a large multinational entity which serves as the distributor of Dione’s products in certain regions. If the manufacturing arrangement terminates, this could also have an adverse effect on the distribution of Dione’s products. We have also begun to assemble some of our NURIT products in Brazil and Turkey, and are reviewing the possibility of manufacturing in other countries. To the extent our products are manufactured by third parties in additional countries, we may become more dependent on third party manufacturers to produce and deliver products sold in these markets on a timely basis and at an acceptable cost. Security is vital to our customers and end-users and therefore breaches in the security of our products could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Protection against fraud is of key importance to the purchasers and end-users of our products. We incorporate security features, such as encryption software and secure hardware, into our products to protect against fraud in electronic payment transactions and to insure the privacy and integrity of consumer data. Our products may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted using our products. If the security of our products is compromised, our reputation and product acceptance will be adversely affected, which would cause our business to suffer, and we may become subject to damage claims. If we do not continually enhance our existing products and develop and market new products and product enhancements, our revenues and income will be adversely affected. The market for electronic transaction systems is characterized by: • rapid technological change; • frequent product introductions and enhancements; • evolving industry performance standards and security measures; and • changes in customer and end-user requirements. Because of these factors, we must continually enhance our existing products and develop and market new products. We cannot be sure that we will successfully complete the development and introduction of new products or product enhancements or that any new products developed will achieve acceptance in the marketplace. We may also fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis. In either case, our revenues and income could suffer and we may lose market share to our competitors. We may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions or write downs and adversely affect our results of operations. We often hold high levels of inventory of components and finished goods in order to meet our customers’ delivery requirements and to be able to fill orders quickly. During the third quarter of 2005, we substantially increased our inventories of finished goods primarily in anticipation of sales orders for our Dione subsidiary that did not materialize. We may find it difficult to sell these products to other customers. We could be required to reduce prices of these products and/or write down the 6 value of this inventory. Technological changes and evolving technological and industry standards are resulting in shorter life cycles for our inventory. Shorter life cycles could cause decreases in selling price, inventory write-offs and a lower rate of return on our research and development expenditures, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We must adhere to industry and government regulations and standards and therefore sales of our products will suffer if we cannot comply with them. Our products must meet industry standards imposed by EMVCo, Visa, MasterCard and other credit card companies, and regional financial organizations. New standards are continually being adopted or proposed as a result of worldwide anti-fraud initiatives, the increasing need for system compatibility and technology developments such as wireless transmissions and communication over the Internet. For example, at the end of 2004, Visa International and MasterCard International introduced enhanced security requirements in order to align their requirements and to take into account additional fraud technologies. These requirements, known as Payment Card Industry PIN Entry Device (PCI PED), will eventually replace the older Visa PED standard defined by Visa and later adopted by MasterCard. Furthermore, the international card associations, Visa, MasterCard and JCB, are jointly or individually defining further security requirements for general transaction data protection and for use of the Internet for payment transaction communications from the point-of-sale. Our products also must comply with government regulations, including those imposed by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters’ Laboratory in the U.S., the European Union and other local telecommunications authorities and independent standards groups worldwide regarding emissions, radiation and connections with telephone lines and radio networks. We cannot be sure that we will be able to design our products to comply with future standards or regulations. Compliance with these standards could increase the cost of producing our products. New products designed to meet any new standards need to be introduced to the market and ordinarily need to be certified by our customers before being purchased. The certification process is costly and time consuming and increases the amount of time it takes to sell our products. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we cannot comply with new or existing industry standards, or obtain or retain necessary regulatory approval or certifications in a timely fashion, or if compliance results in increasing the cost of our products. Selling products that are non-compliant may result in fines against us or our customers, which we may be liable to pay. Undetected hardware and software errors may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. We could be subject to warranty claims and product recalls, which could be expensive and adversely affect our financial condition. We offer complex products that are susceptible to undetected hardware and software errors or failures. Products may experience failures when first introduced, as new versions are released or at any time during their lifecycle. Any product recall as a result of errors or failures, and the associated negative publicity, could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and adversely affect our business and reputation. We typically offer a one-year limited warranty for our products, although we also offer warranties that range from one to five years. Our warranty generally provides that we will repair or replace products that have defects in materials or workmanship. Any significant product returns or warranty claims could result in significant additional costs to us and could adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers may also run third-party software applications on our products. Errors in third-party applications could adversely affect the performance of our products. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of trade secret and intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary 7 rights. We require employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements and also seek these agreements from suppliers. These measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement or to protect us from the claims of others. In addition, our products are sold in foreign markets such as China, Russia and Latin America that provide less protection for intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or European laws. If we are unable to prevent misappropriation of our technology, competitors may be able to use and adapt our technology. Our business may suffer if we are sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. There is an increasing number of patents and patent applications in the electronic payment industry. Third parties have in the past and may in the future assert claims alleging infringement by our current or future products or applications. We may be required to discontinue using and selling any infringing technology, to expend resources to develop non-infringing technology or to purchase or pay royalties for other technology. Infringement claims may cause us to incur significant costs in defending those claims. For example, during 2005, we incurred approximately $899,000 of legal expenses in connection with the proceedings brought by Verve L.L.C. that have been dismissed. Infringement claims are expensive and time consuming to defend, regardless of the merits or ultimate outcome. Similar claims may result in additional protracted and costly litigation. A large portion of our revenues is generated outside of the U.S. and Israel and we intend to continue to expand our operations internationally and therefore our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. The percentage of our revenues generated outside of the U.S. and Israel has increased in each of the past four years. During 2005, 70.0% of our revenues were generated outside of the U.S. and Israel compared to 68.5% in 2004 and 50.3% in 2003. In 2005, revenues generated in Turkey constituted 16.0% of our revenues, revenues generated in Latin America constituted 15.0% of our revenues and revenues generated in the U.K. constituted 12.6% of our revenues. Part of our strategy is to expand our penetration in existing foreign markets and to enter new foreign markets. Our ability to penetrate some international markets may be limited due to different technical standards, protocols or product requirements in different markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in international business activities, including: • economic and political instability in foreign countries; • staffing and managing foreign operations; • increased risk of collection; • multiple, changing and inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations; • laws and business practices that favor local companies; • complying with local regulatory or industry imposed security or other certification requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • burdens that may be imposed by tariffs and other trade barriers; and • greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property in areas such as China, Russia and Latin America. If we are unable to address these risks, our foreign operations may be unprofitable or the value of our investment in our foreign operations may decrease. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial part of our business consists of sales made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Additionally, portions of our cost of revenues and our other operating expenses are incurred by our 8 international operations and denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in the value of these revenues, costs and expenses as measured in U.S. dollars could materially affect our results of operations. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We and our subsidiaries engage from time to time in forward currency transactions that are intended to hedge our exposure to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates. Such arrangements may not always be effective, particularly in the event of imprecise forecasts of non-U.S. denominated assets and liabilities. Accordingly, if there is an adverse movement in exchange rates, we might suffer significant losses. We have experienced a period of rapid growth, and if we cannot adequately manage our growth, our results of operations will suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in our operations both, internally and from our acquisition of Dione, and our anticipated future growth may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We cannot be sure that we have made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with our expansion, or that our systems, procedures and managerial controls will be adequate to support our operations. Any delay in implementing, or transitioning to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may adversely affect our ability to manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We believe our growth will require us to hire additional engineering, technical support, sales, administrative and operational personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense in the areas where we operate. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion, we may not grow our business, our expenses may increase and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We intend to expand our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our strategy is to pursue acquisitions of businesses and technologies or to establish joint ventures to expand our business. In October 2004, we purchased all of the outstanding shares of Dione, which is located in the U.K., and, in April 2005, we purchased certain assets from Lipserv, which is located in Brazil. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies could divert our management’s time and resources and disrupt our ongoing business. Acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition or joint venture. Acquisitions could result in: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • a decrease in our profit margins; and • amortization of intangible assets and potential impairment of goodwill. For example, the consolidation of the results of Dione’s operations into our financial statements contributed to our lower gross margin percentage in 2004 and 2005 and is expected to do so again in 2006. In addition, weaker performance by Dione resulted in our inability to achieve expected results for 2005 and in a goodwill impairment charge of $10.5 million in 2005. If acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals, our business will be adversely affected. Our continued growth and success depend in large part on the managerial and technical skills of Isaac Angel, our president and chief executive officer; and Yitzhak Cohen, our senior vice president, 9 research and development and chief technology officer, as well as other members of our senior management. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. Any loss of services of a member of senior management or other key personnel would negatively affect our business, at least until a suitable replacement is identified, hired and acclimated. We may experience difficulties in hiring and retaining employees. We are experiencing increasing competitive pressure with respect to retaining and hiring employees in the high technology sector in Israel, because technology-related businesses have resumed recruitment efforts after the reduction in demand for these types of employees following the slowdown in technology-related fields that began in 2001. If we fail to hire and retain skilled employees, our business may be adversely affected. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and expect these fluctuations to continue. Fluctuations in our results of operations may disappoint investors and result in a decline in our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. During 2005, our quarterly results of operations ranged from a net loss of $(360,000) to net income of $7.8 million and our quarterly gross margins ranged from 40.6% to 45.1%. In some future periods, our operating results may be below public expectations, as they were in 2005. If this occurs, the market price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. In addition, quarterly fluctuations can affect our planning processes. The point-of-sale, or POS, terminal industry historically has been seasonal. Our revenues historically have been stronger during the second half of the year than during the first half of the year due primarily to increased POS terminal purchases to satisfy increased retail demand during the holiday season. In addition, throughout the year, factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: • the mix of products we sell (as the gross margins we realize on our various products differ); • the mix of sales into different countries (as the gross margins we realize in various countries differ); • the size, timing and pricing of orders; • the timing, results of operations and accounting treatment of acquisitions; • the timing of our product introductions or enhancements, or those of our competitors; • market acceptance of new products; • competitive pricing pressures; and • availability of key components for manufacture; Therefore, the results of any past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. A growing percentage of our business is being executed towards the end of our fiscal quarters. The continuation of this trend could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our fiscal quarters are becoming increasingly back end loaded. This means that sales orders are being received more and more towards the latter part of each fiscal quarter. This trend could negatively impact our business and results of operations as a result of the following factors: • the bulk of the manufacturing of our products could become concentrated in a shorter time period. The concentration of manufacturing into a shorter time period increases labor and other manufacturing costs and could have a negative impact on our gross margin. Our risk of inventory write offs could increase if we were to produce additional products to hold in inventory; 10 • the back-end loading of orders may cause difficulties in forecasting our needs for components and, as a result, we could experience a shortage of the components we need to produce our products. This could cause delays in shipment and the loss of orders; • our inability to fill orders at the end of a quarter may cause delays in shipments. This could increase the fluctuation of our quarterly results if shipments are delayed from one fiscal quarter to the next quarter or lead to cancellations of orders by our customers; and • our financial ratio for measuring customer days outstanding is negatively impacted if sales are executed at quarter end and collections are done only in the subsequent quarter. We have not yet evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by no later than the end of our 2006 fiscal year. While we have begun the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems is compliant with Section 404, this process may take a long time to complete. If it is determined that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and reevaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to be compliant with Section 404. As a result of the growth of our business, our acquisition of Dione and our need to comply with Section 404, we have begun an effort to expand and enhance our systems and controls, including the implementation of an enterprise resource management, or ERP, system. Until all our new systems are in place, it will be more difficult for us to assure compliance with Section 404 and prepare timely and accurate financial statements. In addition, if we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results, and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. If there is an adverse outcome in the securities class action lawsuit that has been filed against us and some of our officers and directors, we may be materially harmed. Defending against this type of lawsuit may be expensive and could divert the attention of our management. A purported class action lawsuit claiming violations of U.S. securities laws was filed in October 2005 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York against us and some of our officers and directors. The complaint alleges that the defendants violated federal securities laws by issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements throughout the purported class period of October 4, 2004 through September 27, 2005. The complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified damages and costs associated with the litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of this lawsuit. We will have to incur expenses in connection with this lawsuit, which may be substantial. Responding to and defending this lawsuit could also result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources. In the event of an adverse outcome, our financial condition could be materially harmed. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel We are headquartered in Israel and therefore our results of operations may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our principal offices and manufacturing facilities and many of our suppliers are located in Israel. Therefore, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, characterized by terrorist attacks on civilian targets, suicide 11 bombings and military incursions by the Israeli army into areas under the control of the Palestinian Authority. The future of relations between the Palestinian Authority and Israel is uncertain. Israel’s disengagement from the Gaza Strip and some parts of the West Bank in 2005 may serve to further disrupt the balance within the Palestinian Authority and affect the overall stability of the region. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates in the January 2006 elections held in the Palestinian territories is widely considered to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to stability in the Middle East as a whole. Hamas does not recognize Israel's right to exist as a state and Israel considers Hamas to be a terrorist organization. In Israel, elections for a new government are scheduled for March 28, 2006. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is in a comatose state and Ehud Ulmert currently holds the position of acting prime minister until the elections. The effect of Mr. Sharon’s illness and the election in Israel on the future relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority cannot be predicted. We also cannot predict the effect on us of any increase in the degree of violence by the Palestinians against Israel or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its Arab neighbors remains uncertain. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, several countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to make sales in those countries. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our male executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform at least 30 days and up to 40 days, depending on rank and position, of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. The government tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. We receive tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as ‘‘Approved Enterprises.’’ We received tax benefits of approximately $5.0 million in 2005 and $6.4 million in 2004. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property, plant and equipment, and continuing to manufacture in Israel. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we receive could be cancelled or reduced and we could be required to pay increased taxes or refund the amounts of the tax benefits we received in the past, together with interest and penalties. Also, an increase in our assembly of products outside of Israel may be construed as a failure to comply with these conditions. These tax benefits may not continue in the future at the current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits, or our inability to qualify for new programs, could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we are currently negotiating with the Israeli tax authorities regarding taxes owed for 2001 - 2003. There is a significant difference between the amount of tax which we believe is owed and the amount the Israeli Tax Authority claims should be paid. A majority of the sums in contention arise out of the Approved Enterprise programs and our eligibility to enjoy lower tax rates under these programs. If the Israeli Tax Authority were to prevail in its position, this would result in a material adverse affect on our results of operations. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and our directors. Because substantially all of our assets and the assets of a substantial majority of our directors and executive officers are located outside the U.S., a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of them may not be collectible within the U.S. Furthermore, service of process upon these individuals, a substantial majority of whom reside outside the U.S., may be difficult to obtain within the U.S. 12 In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See Item 10.B of this Annual Report for additional information about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. See ‘‘Approval of Related Party Transactions Under Israeli Law’’ under Item 10.B of this Annual Report for additional information concerning this duty. Risks Relating to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress their market price. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, either on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. Any decrease in the price of our shares on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange could cause a decrease in the price of our shares on the Nasdaq National Market. Two of our shareholders may be in a position to control significant decisions affecting us. This may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Mivtach Shamir Holdings Ltd. beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 13.1% of our outstanding ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) and Mez-Op Holdings Ltd., which is owned by affiliates of First Israel Mezzanine Investors Ltd., or FIMI, beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 5.1% of our outstanding ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares). Meir Shamir, the chairman of Mivtach Shamir Holdings, Jacob Perry and David Rubner are members of our board of directors designated by Mivtach Shamir Holdings. Ishay Davidi, the chief executive officer of FIMI and Mez-Op Holdings, and Mordechai Gorfung are members of our board of directors designated by Mez-Op Holdings. Mivtach Shamir Holdings and Mez-Op Holdings have entered into an agreement with respect to the election of our directors, rights of first refusal relating to their shares, distribution of dividends and maintenance of shareholders’ equity. As a result, Mivtach Shamir Holdings and Mez-Op Holdings, or their designated directors, can exert significant influence over decisions affecting us while this agreement is in effect. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent mergers, tender offers or other purchases of our ordinary shares. Therefore, this concentration of ownership may adversely affect our share price. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq National Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets will be made in different currencies (dollars on the 13 Nasdaq National Market, and NIS on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the U.S. and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 