ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below. In addition, there may be other risks that we face that are not described below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Management and Our Relationship with Our Manager The following risk factors relating to our management and our relationship with our manager may no longer be applicable once the Company completes its merger with Cohen & Company and its manager is internalized. We are managed by our manager and are obligated to pay substantial fees and are subject to potential conflict of interest risks. Our manager has and will earn substantial fees from its relationship with us. Our manager and its affiliates, including Cohen & Company, earn base management fees and incentive fees under our management agreement; however, such fees are reduced by asset management fees earned by Cohen & Company for managing CDOs and CLOs in which we invest. Cohen & Company also has earned and will earn origination fees and structuring fees in respect of CDOs and CLOs in which we have invested and may invest. In addition to ongoing management fees and fees arising from our investments, our manager will also be entitled to a termination fee of three times 18 Table of Contents the sum of the average annual base fee and incentive fee for the past two 12-month periods under the management agreement if the agreement is terminated under specified circumstances. We are subject to potential conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our manager and its affiliates, including the following potential conflicts arising from fees payable to our manager or its affiliates: • our manager is controlled by Daniel G. Cohen and certain of our other executive officers. As a result, our management agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable as if the terms had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party; • the substantial fees to be earned by our manager and its affiliates, including Cohen & Company, due to our investments in CDOs and CLOs structured, managed and sold by Cohen & Company and its affiliates, whether or not those investments generate attractive returns for us, present potential conflicts for Cohen & Company in causing us to make investments which may not be fully addressed by policies that require a majority of our independent directors to approve all transactions between us and Cohen & Company and its affiliates; • the incentive fee that will be payable under our management agreement may induce our manager to make higher risk investments; and • the substantial termination fee that will be payable under our management agreement will make termination of the agreement extremely costly and may deter us from exercising our termination rights. These risks and other risks arising from our relationship with our manager are explained in detail below. The management agreement and the fees payable thereunder are described above under “Item 1—Business—Management Agreement” and “Item 1—Business—Management Fee and Incentive Fee.” We are dependent on our manager and may not find a suitable replacement if the management agreement is terminated. We have no employees. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business strategies and risk management practices. We are subject to the risk that our manager will terminate the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of our manager’s and its affiliates’ executive officers, whose continued services are not guaranteed. There are potential conflicts of interest in the relationship between us, on the one hand, and our manager and our manager’s affiliates, including Cohen & Company, on the other hand, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We are subject to potential conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our manager and its affiliates, including Cohen & Company. For instance, Daniel G. Cohen, our chairman, and James J. McEntee, III, our chief executive officer and president, also serve as executive officers of Cohen & Company and are not exclusively dedicated to our business. Furthermore, our manager is controlled by Mr. Cohen and by certain of our other executive officers. In addition, our manager has no fiduciary obligation to our stockholders. The management agreement does not prevent our manager and its affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities, some of which compete with us. Our manager and its affiliates engage in additional management or investment opportunities that have overlapping objectives with us, and face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities. Such allocation is at the discretion of our manager and there is no guarantee that this allocation will be made in the best interest of our stockholders. Additionally, the ability of our manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time our manager spends managing us. We may enter into additional transactions with Cohen & Company with the approval of a majority of our independent directors. Such transactions with Cohen & Company may not be as favorable to us as they would be if negotiated with independent third parties. 19 Table of Contents In addition to the fees payable to our manager under our management agreement, Cohen & Company benefits from other fees paid to it by third parties with respect to our investments. In particular, affiliates of Cohen & Company may earn origination fees paid by the issuers of TruPS, which have historically ranged from zero to 3.0% of the face amount of a TruPS issuance. Cohen & Company, through its affiliates, typically retains part of this fee and shares the balance with the investment bank or other third party broker that introduced the funding opportunity to Cohen & Company. Cohen & Company’s affiliates also receive structuring fees for services relating to the structuring of a CDO or a CLO on our behalf or in which we invest. This fee has historically ranged from zero to 0.84% of the face amount of the securities issued by the CDO or CLO, but may exceed this amount. Our independent directors must approve any structuring fees exceeding 0.45% of the face amount of the securities issued by such CDOs or CLOs. In addition, affiliates of Cohen & Company act as collateral managers of the CDOs and CLOs in which we invest. In this capacity, these affiliates receive collateral management fees that have historically ranged between zero and 0.65% of the assets held by the CDOs and CLOs. In addition, the collateral managers may be entitled to earn incentive fees if CDOs or CLOs managed by them exceed certain performance benchmarks. A broker-dealer affiliate of Cohen & Company may also earn placement fees in respect of debt and equity securities which it sells to investors in the CDOs and CLOs in which we invest, as well as commissions and mark-ups from trading of securities to and from CDOs and CLOs in which we invest. The management agreement with our manager provides that the base management fee and incentive management fee payable to our manager will be reduced by our proportionate share of the amount of any CDO and CLO collateral management fees and incentive fees paid to our manager and its affiliates in connection with the CDOs and CLOs in which we invest, based on the percentage of equity we hold in such CDOs and CLOs. Origination fees, structuring fees, placement fees and trading discounts and commissions paid to, or earned by, Cohen & Company and its affiliates will not reduce the amount of fees we pay under our management agreement. We will compete with current and future investment entities affiliated with our manager and Cohen & Company and we may not be allocated by our manager the most attractive real estate related investment opportunities. Cohen & Company has granted us a right of first refusal to (a) purchase the equity interests in CDOs or similar structured products collateralized by U.S. dollar denominated TruPS issued by banks, bank holding companies and insurance companies for which Cohen & Company or its affiliates serve as collateral manager in which event we will have a priority right to fund the origination, through our warehouse facilities, of U.S. dollar denominated TruPS originated by our manager and Cohen & Company or its affiliates which will collateralize the CDOs as to which we have exercised the right of first refusal to acquire equity interests, and (b) purchase the equity interests in CLOs of U.S. dollar denominated leveraged loans for which Cohen & Company or its affiliates serve as collateral manager. Although we benefit from a right of first refusal provided by Cohen & Company with respect to certain of our target assets, this right of first refusal excludes (1) individual investments in leveraged loans, (2) TruPS which collateralize CDOs in which we decline to exercise our right of first refusal to acquire equity interests in the CDO and (3) non-U.S. dollar denominated investments in any of our targeted asset classes. In addition, affiliates of our manager have investment objectives that overlap with our objectives, which could cause us to forego attractive investment opportunities. For instance, Cohen & Company and its affiliates have certain agreements with other entities that Cohen & Company or its affiliates manage or advise in which Cohen & Company and such affiliates have agreed to present appropriate investment opportunities (not including the TruPS and CLO equity interests described above) to those entities before presenting such investment opportunities to us. Additionally, Cohen & Company has established and manages and may establish or manage other investment entities in the future that compete with us for investments. Such entities may compete with us for investments in mortgage loans, RMBS and CMBS, and our manager may not allocate the most attractive real estate related assets to us. We will be competing with Cohen & Company and any other investment entities that Cohen & Company may form in the future for access to the benefits that our relationship with Cohen & Company provides to us, including access to investment opportunities. 20 Table of Contents Certain members of our management team have competing duties to other entities, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. Our executive officers and the employees of our manager, other than our chief financial officer and our chief accounting officer (and certain other accounting personnel), do not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. Our executive officers and the employees of our manager, other than our chief financial officer and chief accounting officer (and certain other accounting personnel), allocate some, or a material portion, of their time to other businesses and activities. For example, our chairman of the board of directors, and president and chief executive officer also serve as executive officers of Cohen & Company. In addition to serving as chairman of Cohen & Company, our chairman of the board of directors serves as a trustee of RAIT Financial Trust, or RAIT (NYSE: RAS), a public company that makes investments in real estate primarily by making real estate loans, acquiring real estate loans and acquiring real estate interests. In the event that the proposed merger with Cohen & Company is consummated, our chairman of the board of directors has agreed to act as our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer and to devote substantially all of his business time and effort to the performance of the duties required by such offices. Other than as disclosed above, none of these individuals is required to devote a specific amount of time to our affairs. Accordingly, we will compete with Cohen & Company and RAIT and possibly other entities in the future for the time and attention of these senior officers and there may be conflicts of interest in allocating investment opportunities to us that may also be suitable for other entities that Cohen & Company advises, as well as RAIT. The departure of any of the senior management of our manager or the loss of our access to Cohen & Company investment professionals and principals may adversely affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of our manager. We also depend on our manager’s access, through a shared services agreement between our manager and Cohen & Company, to the investment professionals and principals of Cohen & Company and the information and origination opportunities generated by Cohen & Company’s investment professionals and principals during the normal course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The senior management of our manager evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors our investments and our financing activities. Our future success depends on the continued service of the senior management team of our manager. The departure of any of the senior managers of our manager, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or principals of Cohen & Company, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Our manager may not remain our manager and may not have access to Cohen & Company’s investment professionals or principals or its information and asset origination opportunities in the future. If we fail to retain our manager, such loss may adversely affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives. If our manager ceases to be our manager pursuant to the management agreement, financial institutions providing our credit facilities may not provide future financing to us. The lenders under our recourse indebtedness agreements and warehouse facility and possible future repurchase agreements and credit facilities may require that our manager manage our operations pursuant to our management agreement, or that certain key employees of our manager continue to be employed by our manager, as a condition to making continued advances to us under the facilities or as a condition to avoid acceleration of our debt under our recourse indebtedness agreements. Additionally, if our manager ceases to be our manager, or if such key employees are no longer employed by our manager, the lenders may terminate our facility and their obligation to advance funds to us in order to finance our future investments. If our manager ceases to be our manager under our management agreement for any reason or if such key employees are no longer employed by our manager, and we are not able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, such failure could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our manager has a short history and has limited experience in managing a REIT, which may hinder our ability to achieve our investment objectives or result in loss of our qualification as a REIT. Government regulations impose numerous constraints on the operations of REITs. Our manager began operations in January 2006 and has limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets for a REIT, which may 21 Table of Contents hinder our ability to achieve our investment objectives or result in loss of our qualification as a REIT in the event that we do not complete the proposed merger with Cohen. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for our manager and does not approve each investment decision made by our manager, which may hinder our ability to unwind transactions entered into by the time such transactions are reviewed. Our manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines on behalf of us. Our board of directors periodically reviews such investment guidelines. Our board of directors approves the investment transactions entered into by the Company, but does not approve the individual transactions relating to collateral accumulation completed within each of the CDO entities or similar structured products that we have or may invest in. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews of select investments, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to us by our manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind at the time they are reviewed by the board. Our manager has great latitude within the broad parameters of the investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments. The incentive fee payable under our management agreement may induce our manager to make higher risk investments. The management compensation structure to which we have agreed with our manager may cause our manager to invest in high risk investments or take other risks. In addition to our management fee, our manager is entitled to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of specified levels of net income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead our manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity, and/or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This may result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. The termination of our management agreement by us will not be possible under some circumstances and would otherwise be difficult and costly. We may terminate the management agreement we entered into with our manager for cause (as defined in the management agreement) at any time. As of December 31, 2008, the management agreement was renewed for a one year period and will continue to be automatically renewed for a one-year term on each anniversary date thereafter unless terminated for cause or as otherwise described in the management agreement. We may terminate the agreement annually upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by a vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock, upon (1) unsatisfactory performance by our manager that is materially detrimental to us or (2) a determination that the management fee payable to our manager is not fair, subject to our manager’s right to prevent such a termination under this clause (2) by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees. Our manager will be provided 180 days’ prior notice of any termination and will be paid a termination fee equal to three times the sum of (A) the average annual base management fee for the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date of termination, plus (B) the average annual incentive fee for the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. Thus, in some circumstances, we will be unable to terminate our management agreement. In other circumstances where we do have the right to terminate our management agreement, these provisions would result in substantial cost to us upon termination. In addition, we may also incur considerable legal cost resulting from potential litigation that may arise in connection with the termination of our management agreement. Consequently, these costs may make it more difficult for us to terminate our management agreement without cause. 22 Table of Contents The liability of our manager is limited under our management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our manager against certain liabilities, which may expose us to significant expenses. Pursuant to our management agreement, our manager has not assumed any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and our manager is not responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow the board of director’s advice or recommendations. Our manager and its members, managers, officers, employees and affiliates (including Cohen & Company) are not liable to us, any of our subsidiaries, our directors, our stockholders or any stockholders of our subsidiaries for acts performed in accordance with and pursuant to our management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under our management agreement. We have agreed to indemnify our manager and its members, managers, officers employees and affiliates and each person controlling our manager with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of such indemnified party not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to our management agreement. If Cohen & Company or its affiliates cease to manage the CDOs or CLOs in which we invest or if the collateral management fees paid to Cohen & Company or its affiliates are reduced, we may have to pay more fees to our manager, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Cohen & Company and its affiliates will receive fees in their capacity as collateral managers of the CDOs or CLOs in which we invest. The management agreement provides that the base management fee and incentive management fee otherwise payable by us to our manager will be reduced, but not below zero, by our proportionate share of the amount of any CDO or CLO collateral management fees paid to Cohen & Company and its affiliates in connection with the CDOs and CLOs in which we invest, based on the percentage of equity we hold in those CDOs and CLOs. If the CDO or CLO collateral management fees paid to Cohen & Company or its affiliates are reduced, or if the collateral management agreement between Cohen & Company and a CDO or CLO vehicle in which we invest is terminated, then the amount of collateral management fees that would be offset to our benefit would be reduced. If this were to occur, we may be required to pay more fees to our manager, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Market Risks We may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to the volatile and illiquid market conditions. The credit markets in the United States began suffering significant disruption in the summer of 2007. This disruption began in the subprime residential mortgage sector and extended to the broader credit and financial markets generally. During the third quarter of 2008, it became clear that the global economy has been adversely impacted by the credit crisis. Available liquidity, particularly through asset-backed securities (ABS) CDOs and other securitizations, declined precipitously during the second half of 2007, continued to decline in 2008 and remains depressed as of the date of this filing. Concerns about the capital adequacy of financial services companies, disruptions in global credit markets, volatility in commodities prices and continued pricing declines in the U.S. housing market have led to further disruptions in the financial markets, adversely affected regional banks and have exacerbated the longevity and severity of the credit crisis. The disruption in these markets directly impacts our business because our investment portfolio includes investments in MBS, residential mortgages, leveraged loans and bank and insurance company debt. We typically finance our investments with on and off-balance sheet warehouse facilities and on-balance sheet CDOs and CLOs. We continue to have exposure to these markets and products and as market conditions continue to worsen the fair value of our investments could further deteriorate. In addition, market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of 23 Table of Contents factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the fair value of our investments portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating investment portfolio losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. Significant concentrations of risk may expose us to losses. Concentrations of risk in our investment portfolio may reduce our revenues or result in losses in our investment portfolio in the event of unfavorable market or broader economic trends. We have committed a large portion of our capital to investments in our target asset classes, which results in us having significant exposures to MBS, residential mortgages, leveraged loans and bank and insurance company debt Liquidity and Funding Risks The disruption in the credit markets has adversely affected our access to liquidity and is likely to result in additional losses. The disruption in the credit markets has severely restricted our ability to complete new CDOs and CLOs. In addition, banks are capital constrained and this severely limits their ability to provide new financing commitments. We expect this situation to continue for the foreseeable future until markets stabilize, credit concerns dissipate and capital becomes less constrained. We are fortunate that the substantial portion of our portfolio is financed with in-place, long-term financing. However, as of December 31, 2008, we had $39.0 million of cash deposited with a warehouse lender to collateralize a warehouse facility for leveraged loan assets. The leveraged loan warehouse facility is scheduled to mature in May 2009. Prior to the May 2009 maturity date, we do not expect that the warehouse lender will offer us favorable refinancing terms or the ability to extend the warehouse facility. If the securitization markets remain effectively closed through the May 2009 maturity date, we will likely lose the first loss cash that we had deposited with the warehouse lender in the amount of $39.0 million. In addition, our inability to maintain compliance with the overcollateralization requirements of our CDO and CLO financing arrangements can materially adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders’ for the reasons discussed above. We may not be able to maintain our continued listing standards for the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). On October 10, 2008, we were notified by the NYSE that we were not in compliance with an NYSE continued listing standard applicable to our common stock. The standard requires that the average closing price of any listed security not fall below $1.00 per share for any consecutive 30 trading-day period. On October 15, 2008, we notified the NYSE of our intent to cure this deficiency. Under the NYSE rules, we have six months from the date of the NYSE notice to comply with the NYSE minimum share price standard. If we are not compliant by that date, our common stock will be subject to suspension and delisting by the NYSE. After exploring different alternatives for curing the deficiency and restoring compliance with the continued listing standards, we currently expect to effectuate a 1 for 10 reverse split of our common stock. Our common stock remains listed on the NYSE under the symbol “AFN.” The NYSE’s continued listing standards also require that 24 Table of Contents our average market capitalization be at least $25 million over any 30 consecutive trading day period and that we maintain our REIT status. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE submitted to the SEC an immediately effective rule filing which suspends the NYSE’s $1 minimum price requirement on a temporary basis, initially through June 30, 2009. Further, the filing also extends until the same date the NYSE’s current easing of the average global market capitalization standard from $25 million to $15 million. In addition to being delisted due to our failure to comply with any of these continued listing standards, we will also likely be delisted if we fail to meet any other of the NYSE’s listing standards. The holders of our remaining $28.7 million aggregate principal amount of convertible debt will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes at 100% of their principal amount together with accrued but unpaid interest thereon if, among other things, our common stock ceases to be listed on the NYSE, another established national securities exchange or an automated over-the-counter trading market in the United States. If we are unable to remedy the NYSE listing deficiency and are unable to list our common stock on another established national securities exchange or automated U.S. over-the-counter trading market, there is a risk that some or all holders of our convertible notes will exercise their right to require us to repurchase their notes. Failure to obtain adequate capital and funding would adversely affect the growth and results of our operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. In particular, we will need to continue to raise additional equity capital in order to grow our business. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the REIT or financial services industry generally, are presently impairing our ability to raise funding and this could continue into the future. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. In the event that we do not complete the proposed merger with Cohen, we will be required to annually distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and we are therefore not able to retain most of our earnings for new investments. The failure to secure acceptable financing could reduce our taxable income because our investments would no longer generate the same level of net interest income with an insufficient amount of funding or an increase in funding costs. A reduction in net income could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Sufficient funding or capital may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable. In addition, if our minimum distribution required to maintain our qualification as a REIT becomes large relative to our cash flow due to our taxable income exceeding our cash flow from operations, then we could be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or raise capital on unfavorable terms, if at all, in order to maintain our REIT qualification. The failure of overcollateralization tests in our CDOs and CLOs can result in our taxable income exceeding our cash flow, which is referred to as “phantom income”. Phantom income is the result of a CDO and CLO entity generating taxable income but not making distributions to the entities equity holders to cover any potential tax burden. During a period of overcollateralization failure, the CDO or CLO entities use any residual cash flows, which are typically distributed to the equity holders, to pay down senior noteholders rather than distributing the residual cash flow to the CDO or CLO equity holders. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business requires a significant amount of cash, and if it is not available, our business and financial performance will be significantly harmed. We require a substantial amount of cash to fund our investments, to pay expenses and to hold assets. We also require cash to meet our working capital, minimum REIT distribution requirements, if any, debt service obligations, and other needs. 25 Table of Contents We expect that our primary sources of working capital and cash will continue to consist of: • revenue from operations, including interest income from our investment portfolio; • interest income from temporary investments and cash equivalents; and • proceeds from future borrowings or any offerings of our equity or debt securities. We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash from operations and financing activities to successfully execute our business strategy. We rely on a limited number of financing arrangements to finance our investments and our business and our financial performance will be significantly harmed if those resources are no longer available. Pending the structuring of a CDO or other securitization, we have typically financed assets that we acquire through borrowings under on and off-balance sheet warehouse arrangements and, possibly, repurchase facilities and secured lines of credit. The obligations of lenders to purchase assets or provide financing during a warehouse accumulation period are subject to a number of conditions, independent of our performance or the performance of the underlying assets. Likewise, repurchase facilities are dependent on the counterparties’ ability to re-sell our obligations to third parties. When there is a disruption of the repurchase market generally, or if one of our counterparties is itself unable to access the repurchase market, our access to this source of liquidity could be adversely affected. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, they may be required to increase significantly the cost of the lines of credit that they provide. We may not be able to renew or replace our financing arrangements when they expire on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The disruptions in the credit markets have essentially halted our ability to use our historical short-term financing strategies, and we do not expect to be able to execute similar strategies until the markets recover. If and when the credit markets recover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our short-term financing strategies in a manner that is consistent with our historical approach. We have incurred a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss, adversely affecting the return on our investments and reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We have incurred a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which can compound losses and reduce the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, the total consolidated indebtedness of the Company was $3.5 billion which includes certain amounts of CDO notes payable held at fair value. We have historically leveraged our investment portfolio through the use of warehouse facilities, repurchase agreements, securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs and CLOs and other borrowings. The leverage we employ varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our investment portfolio and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Substantially all of the assets in our consolidated financial statements are pledged as collateral for the borrowings included in our consolidated financial statements. The return on our investments and our cash flows from operations have been materially impacted by the significant disruptions in the credit markets. Our CDO and CLO indebtedness includes overcollateralization tests that require residual cash flows to be paid to senior noteholders in the event of failure of a test. We have experienced significant defaults within our TruPS and MBS portfolios and these defaults have resulted in the failure of overcollateralization tests within all of our CDOs collateralized by TruPS and MBS. Debt service payments will reduce the net income available for distributions to our stockholders. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Under certain repurchase agreements, our lenders could take title to our assets and our lenders may have an ability to liquidate our assets 26 Table of Contents through an expedited process. As of December 31, 2008, we have no outstanding borrowings under repurchase agreements. Currently, neither our corporate charter nor our bylaws impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our assets. Financing arrangements that we are party to contain covenants that restrict our operations, and any default under these arrangements would inhibit our ability to grow our businesses and increase revenues. The warehouse facility and recourse debt arrangements that we have entered into contain extensive restrictions and covenants. Failure to meet or satisfy any of these covenants may result in an event of default under these agreements. One of our TruPS debt arrangements requires us to maintain a leverage ratio of no greater than 95%. These agreements also typically contain cross-default provisions, so that an event of default under any agreement will trigger an event of default under other agreements, giving the lenders the right to declare all amounts outstanding under their particular credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and the right to enforce their rights by foreclosing on collateral pledged under these agreements. Our financing arrangements may also restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments or acquisitions; and • engage in mergers or consolidations. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain additional financing or to engage in other business activities. Furthermore, our default under any of our warehouse facilities or other financing arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The warehouse providers under our existing warehouse facility and any future facilities may have the right to liquidate assets acquired under the facilities upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a default or a decline in credit quality of the collateral that may lead to a default. We could be required to bear any losses up to our first loss cap suffered by the warehouse providers in the event of a collateral liquidation, if the losses are due to events such as, for example: (i) the failure of an obligor of the underlying collateral in the warehouse to make payments of any interest or principal in respect of the underlying collateral when due after any applicable grace period; (ii) the underlying collateral purchased during the warehouse period falls below a certain corporate rating; (iii) a breach by us of our obligation (if any) to purchase some or all of the equity in the CDO to which the warehouse is related if such breach causes the CDO to not close; or (iv) the underlying asset purchased during the warehouse period becoming a credit risk security (e.g., if the warehouse provider and/or the collateral manager determine in good faith that the underlying asset has a significant risk of declining in credit quality). In such events, we could suffer a liability up to the amount of the cash collateral we maintain with our warehouse providers, depending on the structure of the warehouse; provided, however, that if we breach our obligations to purchase equity of an associated CDO, our loss could be greater than this amount. We may be unable to complete securitization transactions. We have historically financed our investments with long-term CDO and CLO financing or other types of securitization structures. This involves creating a special-purpose vehicle, accumulating a pool of assets in the vehicle, and selling interests in the vehicle to purchasers on a non-recourse basis. We have historically retained all or a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of portfolio investments (i.e., the CDO). We may finance our investments with typically relatively short-term warehouse facilities, until a sufficient quantity of securities is accumulated, with the intent of refinancing these facilities through a securitization such as a CDO or CLO issuance or other financing. However, we may not be able to acquire, during the period that our short-term facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO or CLO issuance. We also may not be able to obtain short-term warehouse facilities or to renew any such facilities after they expire should we find it necessary to extend the facilities to allow more time to buy the necessary eligible 27 Table of Contents securities for long-term financing. The inability to renew the facilities may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. Liquidation of the assets may subject us to the loss of our first-loss warehouse deposit. As described above, the existing disruption in the credit markets has severely constrained our ability to complete CDOs and CLOs. The inability to securitize our portfolio could hurt our performance. At the same time, the securitization of our portfolio investments has exposed us to losses, as the equity securities that we have retained have tended to be higher risk than the other securities issued by the CDOs or CLOs and more likely to suffer losses. The use of CDO and CLO financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow and may trigger certain termination provisions in the related collateral management agreements. The terms of the CDOs and CLOs we have structured have generally provided that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related securities issued by the CDO or CLO by a certain amount, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The CDO and CLO terms have provided that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceeded the specified levels based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the CDO or CLO securities, the required level of over-collateralization is increased or prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies had not exceeded those levels. Other tests, based on delinquency levels or other criteria including downgrades by the rating agencies of the underlying portfolio securities of the CDO, restrict our ability to receive cash distributions from assets collateralizing the CDO or CLO securities. The performance tests may not be satisfied. In advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on future CDOs and CLOs, there are no assurances as to the actual terms of the CDO and CLO delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect the availability of net income to us. When the assets held by CDOs and CLOs fail to perform as anticipated, our earnings are adversely affected and over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expenses associated with CDO and CLO financings increase. As of December 31, 2008 and through to the date of this filing, all of our CDOs collateralized by TruPS and MBS are failing overcollateralization tests and are currently not making any cash distributions to us. The failure of these overcollateralization tests are primarily the result of significant credit deterioration in the underlying collateral of our TruPS and MBS CDOs. The failure of the overcollateralization tests resulted in a change to the priority of payments to the debt and equity holders. Upon the failure of an overcollateralization test, the cash flows that would otherwise have been distributed to us are used to sequentially pay down the outstanding principal balance of the more or most senior noteholders. The overcollateralization requirements in the leveraged loan CLOs are typically triggered in the event that we experience significant losses on the sale of assets below par, as well as unrealized fair value adjustments on certain assets as mandated by the indentures which govern our leveraged loan CLOs. The primary cause for such fair value adjustments are default activity, and credit downgrades in the underlying asset pool. As of the date of this filing, we have not experienced an overcollateralization failure in any of our leveraged loan CLOs. However, the current state of the credit markets and the economy in general increases the likelihood of defaults and ratings agency downgrades on the underlying collateral of our CLOs. There can be no assurance that in light of the current markets that we will not experience significant defaults or downgrade activity in our leveraged loan portfolio that may result in the failure of overcollateralization tests. The lack of liquidity in certain investments may adversely affect our business. We hold investments in securities of private companies, CDOs and CLOs. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. 28 Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown, volatility in the markets, a recession or declining real estate values and increasing interest rates could impair our investments and harm our operating results which may, in turn, adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our investments are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and rising interest rates, which has lead to financial losses in our investments and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. These events have reduced the value of our investments, reduced the number of attractive investment opportunities and harmed our operating results, which, in turn, has adversely affected our cash flow from operations. Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has been and could continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in the past six months the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. In particular, the cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. As a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties to do business with us. The recent disruption in the credit markets has severely limited our ability to securitize assets through CDOs and CLOs and has generally reduced the overall ability of lenders to extend warehouse financing. Where warehouse financing is available, the costs have increased and lenders are requiring greater cash collateral. If securitization financing remains constrained, we may not be willing or able to complete a securitization for assets that have been purchased using short-term warehouse lines. In that event, we may potentially lose the first loss cash that we had deposited with the warehouse lender. If we are unable to deploy our capital in high-yielding CDO investments quickly or at all, we would need to find alternative investments which may be lower yielding. Credit Risks The mortgage loans in which we have invested, including the loans in any securitization trusts that we have a residual interest in, and the mortgage loans underlying the RMBS in which we have invested are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us that may result in reduced earnings and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential properties and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest, and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. As a result of the on-going disruption in the housing market and the downturn in the overall economy, we have recorded significant losses on our residential mortgage loan portfolio, including the loans held directly us and through our equity interest in a securitization trust collateralized by residential mortgage loans. The weighted average origination date for the loans included in our portfolio was July 2006 and the weighted average FICO of our borrowers at origination was 734. The majority of our loans were originated at the end of a period time of unprecedented real estate appreciation to borrowers that were deemed to be “prime” borrowers. During the past two years the values of the properties securing our loans have materially decreased and the credit quality of our average borrower has also materially decreased. We expect to record further losses on this portfolio as a result of the continuing increase in the unemployment rate, continued home price depreciation, lack of refinancing options for many borrowers and continued deterioration in the general macro economic conditions. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us or through our residual interests in securitization trusts, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse 29 Table of Contents effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law, which could result in a total loss of our investment. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. In addition, residential mortgage borrowers are not typically prevented by the terms of their mortgage loans from prepaying their loans in whole or in part at any time. Borrowers prepay their mortgages for many reasons, but typically, when interest rates decline, borrowers tend to prepay at faster rates. To the extent that the underlying mortgage borrowers in any of our mortgage loan pools or the pools underlying any of our MBS prepay their loans, we will likely receive funds that will have to be reinvested, and we may need to reinvest those funds at less desirable rates of return. RMBS evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, the MBS we have invested in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. A portion of our investments in MBS are collateralized by subprime residential mortgages. Subprime residential mortgage loans are generally loans to credit impaired borrowers and borrowers that are ineligible to qualify for loans from conventional mortgage sources due to loan size, credit characteristics, documentation standards and other applicable factors. Loans to lower credit grade borrowers generally experience higher-than-average default and loss rates than do conforming mortgage loans. Material differences in expected default rates, loss severities and/or prepayments on the subprime mortgage loans from what was estimated in connection with the original underwriting of such loans could cause reductions in our income and adversely affect our operating results, with respect to our investments in MBS. If we underestimate the extent of losses that our investments in MBS will incur, then our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Investments in subordinated RMBS are generally in the “second loss” position and therefore subject to increased risk of losses. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder and then by the “second loss” subordinated security holder. Our investments in subordinated RMBS are generally in the “second loss” position and therefore will be subject to losses. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any collateral, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we have invested, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related MBS, the securities in which we have invested may effectively become the “first loss” position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, will cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgage loans underlying MBS to make principal and interest payments will be impaired. In such an event, existing credit support in the securitization structure will be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. We have invested in residential mortgage loans that have material geographic concentrations. Any adverse market or economic conditions in those regions may have a disproportionately adverse effect on the ability of our customers to make their loan payments. We have invested in residential mortgage loans that have material geographic concentrations. The risk of foreclosure and losses on these loans are exacerbated by economic and other conditions in these geographic 30 Table of Contents markets. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing those mortgage loans is adversely affected by adverse market and economic conditions in that region. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions, such as the current housing market, or natural disasters in that geographic region will adversely affect our net interest income from loans in our investment portfolio and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Based on the total carrying amount of the mortgages taken out in connection with the residential mortgage loans the Company had invested in as of December 31, 2008, approximately 47% of the properties securing those residential mortgage loans were concentrated in the state of California. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income producing properties. Although we have not yet done so, we may invest in mezzanine loans that take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income producing real property because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender or may be secured only by an equity interest in the borrower and not any real property. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of our ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Equity investments may involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing and specific risks relating to particular issuers. Although we have not yet made material equity investments, we may opportunistically invest in equity of various types of business entities, including banks, bank holding companies, insurance companies and real estate companies, depending upon our ability to finance such assets in accordance with our financing strategy. Equity investments, including investments in preferred securities, involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to debt and are not secured. Furthermore, should the issuer default, we would only be able to proceed against the entity in which we have an interest, and not the assets owned by the entity. If we invest in preferred securities, in most cases we will have no recourse against an issuer for a failure to pay stated dividends; rather, unpaid dividends typically accrue and the preferred stockholders maintain a liquidation preference in the event of a liquidation of the issuer of the preferred securities. An issuer may not have sufficient assets to satisfy any liquidation preference to which we may be entitled. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investments in preferred equity securities in particular and in equity securities in general. Investments in equity securities are also subject to risks of: (i) limited liquidity in the secondary trading market, (ii) substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates, (iii) subordination to the prior claims of banks and other lenders to the issuer, (iv) the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to redeem our investment and cause us to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets, and (v) the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding securities of the issuers of the equity securities we purchase and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make dividend payments. 31 Table of Contents Catastrophic losses and the lack of availability of reinsurance could adversely affect our investments in TruPS issued by insurance companies. The insurance companies that issue the TruPS in which we invest are exposed to policy claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes may be caused by various events, including hurricanes, earthquakes and floods and may also include man-made catastrophes such as terrorist activities. The frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Claims resulting from catastrophic events could materially reduce the profitability or harm the financial condition of the insurance companies which issue the TruPS in which we have invested, and could cause one or more of such insurance companies to defer payment on such TruPS, or default on the payment of distributions of such TruPS. Payments under these TruPS are subordinated to policy claim payments owed by these insurance companies to their policy holders. In addition, the ability of insurance companies to manage this risk may depend, in part, upon their ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. Defaults by one or more larger financial institutions could adversely affect our TruPS portfolio, the financial markets generally or actions taken by bank regulators. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect the fair value of our investments portfolio and result in losses. Systemic risk may increase the likelihood of regulatory action imposed on the banks included within our TruPS portfolio. Bank regulatory action that precludes the institution from making periodic dividend payments, including payment of TruPS interest payments, would subject us to decreased cashflows and potential losses or even a complete termination of distributions of cash to us in TruPS CDOs in which such TruPS issuers suffer such events. The borrowers under leveraged loans in which we have invested include privately owned mid-sized companies, which may present a greater risk of loss than loans to larger companies. Compared to larger, publicly owned firms, privately owned mid-sized companies generally also have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs and may be in a weaker financial position. Accordingly, loans made to these types of borrowers entail higher risks than advances made to companies which are able to access traditional credit sources. Numerous factors may affect a borrower’s ability to make scheduled payments on our leveraged loans, including the failure to meet their business plan or a downturn in their industry. In part because of their smaller size, leveraged loan borrowers may: • experience significant variations in operating results; • have narrower product lines and market shares than their larger competitors; • be particularly vulnerable to changes in customer preferences and market conditions; • be more dependent than larger companies on one or more major customers, the loss of which could materially impair their business and financial condition and prospects; • face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical, managerial and marketing resources; • depend on the management talents and efforts of a single individual or a small group of persons for their success, the death, disability or resignation of whom could materially harm the borrower’s financial condition or prospects; 32 Table of Contents • have less skilled or experienced management personnel than larger companies; or • do business in regulated industries, such as the healthcare industry, and could be adversely affected by policy or regulatory changes. Accordingly, any of these factors could impair a borrower’s cash flow or result in other events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit that borrower’s ability to repay obligations to the CLOs in which we own securities, and may lead to losses in our investment portfolio and a decrease in our revenues, net income and assets, which may result in reduced earnings and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders as a result of a partial or complete termination of distribution of cash to us from our CDO or CLO investments. With respect to our investments in leveraged loans to mid-sized companies, we have invested in balloon loans and bullet loans which may have a greater degree of risk than other types of loans. A balloon loan is a term loan with a series of scheduled payment installments calculated to amortize the principal balance of the loan so that upon maturity of the loan, more than 25%, but less than 100%, of the loan balance remains unpaid and must be satisfied. A bullet loan is a loan with no scheduled payments of principal before the maturity date of the loan. On the maturity date, the entire unpaid balance of the loan is due. Balloon loans and bullet loans involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans because they require the borrower to make a large final payment upon the maturity of the loan. The ability of a borrower to make this final payment upon the maturity of the loan typically depends upon our ability either to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the loan prior to maturity, to refinance the loan or to sell the related collateral securing the loan, if any. The ability of a borrower to accomplish any of these goals will be affected by many factors, including the availability of financing at acceptable rates to the borrower, the financial condition of the borrower, the marketability of the related collateral, the operating history of the related business, tax laws and the prevailing general economic conditions. Consequently, the borrower may not have the ability to repay the loan at maturity and we could lose all or most of the principal of our loan. As of December 31, 2008, we had investments in balloon or bullets loans of approximately $702.9 million, or approximately 17.9% of total assets. Business Risks We have a limited operating history and limited experience operating as a REIT and we may not be able to operate the company successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. Since we currently operate as a REIT, we will therefore be subject to various rules relating to REITs in the event that we do not complete the proposed merger with Cohen. Because we have limited experience operating within the complex rules and regulations required for REIT qualification, we may not be able to comply with these rules and regulations. Our failure to comply with these rules and regulations could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Tax Risks” below. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend upon our ability to manage future growth effectively and failure to do so may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively and to identify and invest in assets and businesses that meet our investment and financing criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of the structuring of the investment process, and having access to both debt and equity financing on acceptable terms. Any failure to manage future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents The amount of distributions to our stockholders will depend upon certain factors affecting our operating results, some of which are beyond our control. A REIT must annually distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its stockholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of these factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to make distributions. We may not be able to make distributions. From time to time, we may not have sufficient cash to meet the distribution requirements due to timing differences between (1) the actual receipt of cash, including receipt of distributions from our subsidiaries and (2) the inclusion of items in our income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we do not have sufficient cash available to pay required distributions, we might have to borrow funds or sell assets to raise funds, which could adversely impact our business. Furthermore, we are dependent on distributions from our subsidiaries for revenues. The failure of overcollateralization tests in our CDOs and CLOs can result in our taxable income exceeding our cash flow or phantom income. See Risk Factors—Liquidity and Funding Risks—”Failure to obtain adequate capital and funding would adversely affect the growth and results of our operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.” TruPS, leveraged loans or equity in corporate entities, such as CDOs or CLOs that hold TruPS and leveraged loans, do not qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and the income generated by these investments generally does not qualify as real-estate related income for the REIT gross income tests. TruPS, leveraged loans or equity in corporate entities, such as CDOs or CLOs that hold TruPS or leveraged loans, do not qualify as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests that we must meet on a quarterly basis to continue to qualify as a REIT. The income generated from investments in TruPS, leveraged loans or CDOs and CLOs that hold TruPS and leveraged loans generally does not qualify as real estate related income for the REIT gross income tests. Accordingly, we are limited in our ability to acquire TruPS and leveraged loans or maintain our investments in these assets or entities created to hold them. Further, whether MBS held by warehouse lenders pursuant to off-balance sheet financing arrangements or financed using repurchase agreements prior to securitization are treated as qualifying assets or as generating qualifying real estate-related income for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests depends on the terms of the warehouse or repurchase financing arrangement. If we fail to make sufficient investments in qualifying real estate assets, such as mortgage loans, RMBS and CMBS, we will likely fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Furthermore, if income inclusions from our foreign TRSs or certain other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries are determined not to qualify for the REIT 95% gross income test, we may need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of our interests in such foreign TRSs or other foreign corporations that are not qualified REIT subsidiaries, to ensure that the income we recognize from our foreign TRSs or such other foreign corporations does not exceed 5% of our gross income in the event that we do not complete the proposed merger with Cohen. If the value of the assets we pledge to secure loans declines, we will experience losses and may lose our REIT qualification. We have borrowings in the form of collateralized borrowings. As of December 31, 2008 we had no borrowing arrangements that subject us to margin calls. If the value of the assets pledged to secure our borrowings were to decline, we would be required to post additional collateral, reduce the amount borrowed or suffer forced sales of the collateral. If sales were made at prices lower than the carrying value of the collateral, we would experience additional losses. If we are forced to liquidate qualified REIT assets to repay borrowings, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code regarding asset and source of income requirements. If we are unable to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible by us, and our income will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation, reducing our earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. 34 Table of Contents An increase in borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our investments may adversely affect our profitability, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be required either to enter into new financing arrangements or to sell certain of our portfolio investments. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new financing arrangements would reduce the spread between our returns on our portfolio investments and the cost of our borrowings. This change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on our portfolio investments that are subject to prepayment risk, including MBS investments, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy. Borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2008, we had no repurchase agreements or other financing arrangements that subject us to margin calls. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that our lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lender or us. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our MBS. If any of the mortgage loans that we securitize do not comply with the representations and warranties that we make about the characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the properties securing the loans, we may be required to repurchase those loans that we have securitized, or replace them with substitute loans or cash. If this occurs, we may have to bear any associated losses directly. In addition we may be required to indemnify the purchasers of such loans for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty made by us. Repurchased loans typically require an allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited, which could limit the amount by which we can leverage our equity. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could significantly harm our cash flow and results of operations. As of the date of this filing, we have not been required to repurchase any mortgage loans from the securitization trust that we hold an equity interest in. The treatment of TruPS and surplus notes for regulatory capital purposes may reduce the attractiveness of TruPS and surplus notes as a financing mechanism to banks, bank holding companies and insurance companies, which may result in us having to invest in assets that are lower yielding than our expected returns of TruPS. One of the attractive features of TruPS for banks and bank holding company issuers is that TruPS can currently be included in the tier one capital, as defined in the regulations promulgated under the Bank Holding Act, of bank holding companies, subject to certain quantitative limitations. Many insurance companies also receive favorable capital treatment for TruPS and surplus notes for state regulatory purposes. In 2005, the Federal Reserve Board approved a final rule, “Risk-Based Capital Standards: Trust Preferred Securities and the Definition of Capital,” which provides for the continued inclusion of outstanding and prospective issuances of TruPS in the tier one capital of bank holding companies subject to the limitation that restricted core capital elements, which include TruPS, are limited to 25% of the sum of core capital elements (including restricted core capital elements), net of goodwill less associated deferred tax liabilities. For internationally active bank holding companies, the limitation on restricted core capital elements is 15%. TruPS and their embedded underlying subordinated notes must also be structured to meet certain qualitative requirements provided for in the final rule. Thus, banks and bank holding company issuers are limited in their ability to treat TruPS as tier one capital. The 35 Table of Contents individual states’ departments of insurance regulate the issuance and repayment of surplus notes. In the future, regulators could seek to impose further limitations on the issuance of surplus notes. Any such limitations would adversely affect the ability of insurance companies to issue these types of securities, which may result in us investing in assets that are lower yielding than our expected returns on TruPS. This could result in reduced returns for our stockholders. In the future, regulators could also seek to impose further limits on the treatment of TruPS as tier one capital, or to exclude them from tier one capital in their entirety. Any such limitation or exclusion would adversely affect the willingness of banks to issue TruPS, which may result in us investing in assets that are lower yielding than our expected returns on TruPS. This could result in reduced returns for our stockholders. Some rating agencies currently view TruPS favorably in evaluating the capital structure of banks, bank holding companies and insurance companies. If this view were to change, banks, bank holding companies and insurance companies might discontinue issuing TruPS. Some rating agencies currently treat TruPS favorably in evaluating the capital structure of banks, bank holding companies, insurance holding and insurance companies. In the future, these rating agencies could change their view on the treatment of TruPS. If this were to happen, banks, bank holding companies and insurance companies may be unwilling to issue TruPS to us, which may result in us investing in assets that are lower yielding than our expected returns on TruPS. This could result in reduced returns for our stockholders. Our hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk, which may cause greater volatility in our earnings. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may engage in certain hedging transactions in an effort to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates, which may expose us to risks associated with these transactions. We may utilize instruments such as options, forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our investment portfolio positions from changes in market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our investment portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of these positions or prevent losses if the values of these positions decline. However, hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of these investment portfolio positions. Hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the investment portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, we may not be able to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is generally anticipated at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to structure and execute effective hedges for the assets we hold. Therefore, while we may enter into these transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the investment portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the investment portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Accounting for hedges under GAAP is extremely complicated. We may inadvertently fail to account for our hedges properly in accordance with GAAP in our financial statements or may fail to qualify for hedge accounting, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. As of December 31, 2008, we account for all of our derivative instruments at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement and therefore, are not subject to hedge accounting. While we use hedging to mitigate some of our interest rate risk, the failure to completely insulate our investment portfolio from interest rate risk may cause greater volatility in our earnings. 36 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our investments. Except to the extent provided by Treasury Regulations, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of our business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real state assets, which is clearly identified as specified in Treasury Regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated, or entered into and satisfies other identification requirements, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test). To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through one of our domestic TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our domestic TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of portfolio investments held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions to offset interest rate losses is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions applicable to REITs; • gains on hedges at our domestic TRSs will be subject to income tax; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on our obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The competitive pressures we face as a result of operating in a highly competitive market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The current state of the global credit markets has resulted in a lack of liquidity and significant volatility in the types of asset classes that we have historically invested. These disruptions are expected to continue to limit our ability and our competitors’ ability to execute on historical investment strategies. Upon the return of liquidity to the credit markets, we expect to continue to encounter significant competition in seeking investments. We expect to compete with many third parties including specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, lenders, governmental bodies and other entities with respect to our origination and investment activities. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds, enhanced operating efficiencies and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk 37 Table of Contents tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face if not effectively managed may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive origination and investment opportunities and therefore may not be able to identify and pursue opportunities that are consistent with our objectives. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. In addition, competition for desirable investments could delay the investment in desirable assets, which may in turn reduce our earnings per share and negatively affect our ability to declare distributions to our stockholders. Our existing CDO and CLO investments are, and future CDOs, CLOs and other securitizations may be, collateralized with real estate securities and securities issued by banks, bank holding companies and insurance companies and surplus notes issued by insurance companies, and any adverse market trends that affect these industries are likely to adversely affect such CDOs, CLOs and other securitizations in general. We have invested in 12 CDOs and 2 CLOs as of December 31, 2008, which are collateralized by RMBS, TruPS issued by banks or bank holding companies and insurance companies, and leveraged loans. Any adverse market trends, such as the current disruptions in the credit markets, that affect the banking, insurance or real estate industries or the value of these types of securities have and will adversely impact the value of our interests in our CDOs, CLOs and other securitizations. Such trends have and could include declines in real estate values in certain geographic markets or sectors, underperformance of real estate securities issued in a particular year, unexpected bank or insurance company losses or failures, or changes in U.S. federal income tax laws or banking regulations that could affect the performance of real estate securities and loans and securities issued by banks or bank holding companies and insurance companies, which have and could result in overcollateralization failures and losses on our investments. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect our ability to pay dividends. Accounting rules for certain of our transactions are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could adversely impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions, consolidation of variable interest entities, and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to delay in preparation of financial information. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Investment Portfolio Risks We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, our investments have depreciated in value and, in fact, may continue to decline in value, and the financings that we originate and the securities that we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able 38 Table of Contents to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. As of the date of this filing, our investment portfolio has been directly impacted by the disruption in the markets because we have investments in MBS, residential mortgages, leveraged loans and bank and insurance company debt. We continue to have exposure to these markets and products and as market conditions continue to evolve the fair value of our investments could further deteriorate. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the fair value of our investments portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. We may change our investment strategy, hedge strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without our stockholders’ consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment strategy, hedge strategy, asset allocation and operational policies at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments or hedges that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments or hedges described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment or hedge strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, our board of directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our polices with respect to our REIT qualification, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Increases in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our investments, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. While we seek to match fund the duration of our assets and liabilities to lock in a spread between the yields on our assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities, changes in the general level of interest rates may affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect, among other things, our ability to successfully implement our investment strategy and the value of our assets. In the event of a significant rising interest rate environment, defaults on our assets may increase and result in losses that would adversely affect our liquidity and operating results. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Our operating results will depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets, net of credit losses, and our financing costs. We anticipate that, in most cases, for any period during which our assets are not match-funded, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of the related borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and market value of our assets. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding interest income would result in operating losses for us. We are subject to increased interest rate risk during the accumulation period of our warehouse facilities or other short-term financing arrangements. As the accumulation period is completed or warehouse facilities mature, we plan to either enter into a securitization transaction or a new warehouse facility or sell certain assets. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time we seek to enter into a securitization transaction or a new warehouse facility may reduce the spread between the returns on our portfolio investments and the cost of our borrowings. This change in interest rates would adversely affect returns on portfolio investments that are fixed rate. 39 Table of Contents If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term financing for our assets, we may experience a material reduction in the economic value of the assets that we have acquired. We have historically priced our assets based on our assumptions about future levels of credit spreads (the risk premium for taking credit risk which is the difference between the risk free rate and the interest rate paid on the investment) for term financing of those assets. At the time of asset origination or initial purchase, we plan to obtain longer term financing for these assets at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury bonds, swaps, or LIBOR. If the spread that investors will pay over the benchmark widens and the rates we charge on our loans or the income we generate from our other assets are not increased accordingly, we may experience a material adverse reduction in the economic value of the assets that we have acquired. For example, the spreads on the leveraged loans that we currently hold in a warehouse facility are not at spread levels that are currently available in the market and therefore, we have recorded a $101 million unrealized loss in earnings for these loans during the year ended December 31, 2008. CDS and other derivative products are subject to risks related to changes, credit spreads, credit quality and expected recovery rates of the underlying credit instrument. CDS are subject to risks related to changes in credit spreads, credit quality and expected recovery rates of the underlying credit instrument. A CDS is a contract in which the contract buyer pays, in the case of a short position, or receives, in the case of a long position, a periodic premium until the contract expires or a credit event occurs. In return for this premium, the contract seller makes a payment to the buyer, in the case of a short position, or receives, in the case of a long position, from the buyer if there is a credit default or other specified credit event with respect to the issuer of the underlying credit instrument referenced in the CDS. On October 11, 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a derivative arrangement with a third party. Under the agreement, we are obligated to make payments to a third party in the event that the Class A-1 Notes of Alesco Preferred Funding XIV, Ltd., or Alesco XIV CDO, fails to: (1) make scheduled principal or interest payments on its $430,000,000 senior secured notes due in 2037; and (2) the debt issued by a particular insurance issuer that collateralizes Alesco XIV defaults. The notional amount of the contract is $8.8 million. We are also subject to margin requirements in the event that the Class A-1 Notes of the Alesco XIV CDO are downgraded below AAA. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Class A-1 Notes of the Alesco XIV CDO were downgraded to “A+” and as a result we will be required to post approximately $2.2 million of margin collateral. The maximum amount of the margin exposure is equal to the notional amount of the contract and the amount of required margin varies based upon the Company’s outstanding stockholders’ equity balance and the rating level assigned to the Class A-1 Notes. CDOs are subject to the risk that the collateral underlying the CDOs are insufficient to make payments on the CDO securities. We may invest in investment grade and non-investment grade securities issued by CDOs. CDO debt and equity securities rely on distributions of the collateral underlying the CDO. Interest payments on CDO debt (other than the most senior tranche or tranches of a given issue) are generally subject to deferral without causing an event of default or permitting exercise of remedies by the holders thereof. If distributions on the collateral of the CDO or proceeds of such collateral are insufficient to make payments on the CDO debt and/or equity securities we hold, no other assets will be available for payment of the deficiency. In addition, CDO securities are generally privately placed and offer less liquidity than other investment-grade or high-yield corporate debt. We may incur lender liability as a result of our investments in leveraged loans. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or our other creditors or stockholders. We may be subject to allegations of lender liability, which if successful, could result in material losses and materially and adversely affect our operations. 40 Table of Contents The leveraged loans in which we have invested could be subject to equitable subordination by a court and thereby increase our risk of loss with respect to such loans. Courts have, in some cases, applied the doctrine of equitable subordination to subordinate the claim of a lending institution against a borrower to claims of other creditors of the borrower, when the lending institution is found to have engaged in unfair, inequitable or fraudulent conduct. The courts have also applied the doctrine of equitable subordination when a lending institution or its affiliates are found to have exerted inappropriate control over a client, including control resulting from the ownership of equity interests in a client. Payments on one or more of our leveraged loans, particularly a leveraged loan to a client in which we also hold equity interests, may be subject to claims of equitable subordination. If, when challenged, these factors were deemed to give us the ability to control or otherwise exercise influence over the business and affairs of one or more of our clients, this control or influence could constitute grounds for equitable subordination. This means that a court may treat one or more of our leveraged loans as if it were common equity in the client. In that case, if the client were to liquidate, we would be entitled to repayment of our loan on an equal basis with other holders of the client’s common equity only after all of the client’s obligations relating to our debt and preferred securities had been satisfied. One or more successful claims of equitable subordination against us could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. We may not act as agent for many of the leveraged loans in which we have invested and, consequently, will have little or no control over how those loans are administered or controlled. In many of the leveraged loans in which we have invested, we are not the agent of the lending group that receives payments under the loan or the agent of the lending group that controls the collateral for purposes of administering the loan. When we are not the agent for a loan, we may not receive the same financial or operational information as we receive for loans for which we are the agent and, in many instances, the information on which we must rely is provided to us by the agent rather than directly by the borrower. As a result, it will be more difficult for us to track or rate these loans than it is for the loans for which we are the agent. Additionally, we are prohibited or otherwise restricted from taking actions to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan without the agreement of other lenders holding a specified minimum aggregate percentage, generally a majority or two-thirds of the outstanding principal balance. It is possible that an agent for one of these loans may choose not to take the same actions to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan that we would have taken had we been agent for the loan. We may make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated securities, which will be subject to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. We may purchase securities denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that our exposure, if any, would be principally to the British pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on returns on our non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk subject to the REIT income qualification tests, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations, which may result in reduced earnings and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy may involve entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances such as the early termination of a derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities that are contractually owed under the terms of the derivative agreement. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses would be reflected in our results of operations and our ability to fund these obligations would depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. 41 Table of Contents Our due diligence may not have revealed all of an entity’s liabilities and may not have revealed other weaknesses in their business. Before originating an investment for, or making an investment in, an entity, we rely on our manager to assess the strength and skills of the entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the investment. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. These due diligence processes may not have uncovered and may not uncover in the future all relevant facts, which could result in losses to us. Regulatory and Legal Risks of Our Business Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We seek to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(l)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, are securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company set forth in Section 3(c)(l) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Because we are organized as a holding company that conducts our businesses primarily through majority-owned subsidiaries, the securities issued to us by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” by Section 3(c)(l) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other “investment securities” we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through these subsidiaries. The determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of ours is made by us. The Investment Company Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The Investment Company Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies, including CDO issuers, in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. We have not requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary of ours and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies, including collateralized debt obligation, or CDO issuers, as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our investment strategy and invest our assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in our investment strategy could have a material adverse effect on us. A majority of our subsidiaries are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the assets in which they can invest to avoid being regulated as an investment company. For instance, our subsidiaries that issue CDOs generally rely on Rule 3a-7, an exemption from the Investment Company Act provided for certain structured financing vehicles that pool income-producing assets and issue securities backed by those assets. Such structured financings may not engage in portfolio management practices resembling those employed by mutual funds. Accordingly, each of our CDO subsidiaries that rely on Rule 3a-7 is subject to an indenture which contains specific guidelines and restrictions limiting the discretion of the CDO issuer and our manager. In particular, the indentures prohibit the CDO issuer from acquiring and disposing of assets primarily for the purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes. Certain sales and purchases of assets, such as dispositions of collateral that 42 Table of Contents has gone into default or is at risk of imminent default, may be made so long as the CDOs do not violate the guidelines contained in the indentures and are not based primarily on changes in market value. The proceeds of permitted dispositions may be reinvested in collateral that is consistent with the credit profile of the CDO under specific and predetermined guidelines. In addition, absent obtaining further guidance from the SEC, substitutions of assets may not be made solely for the purpose of enhancing the investment returns of the holders of the equity securities issued by the CDO issuer. As a result of these restrictions, our CDO subsidiaries may suffer losses on their assets and we may suffer losses on our investments in our CDO subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries that hold real estate assets (i.e., Alesco Loan Holdings Trust and Sunset Loan Holdings Trust) rely on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. In order to qualify for this exemption, at least 55% of a subsidiary’s portfolio must be composed of mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate (collectively, “qualifying assets”) and at least 80% of the subsidiary’s portfolio must be composed of real estate-related assets. Qualifying assets include mortgage loans, MBS that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other interests in real estate. Accordingly, these restrictions will limit the ability of these subsidiaries to invest directly in MBS that represent less than the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans, unsecured debt and preferred securities issued by REITs and real estate companies or in assets not related to real estate. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Alesco Loan Holdings Trust’s and Sunset Loan Holdings Trust’s assets consist primarily of whole-residential mortgage loans to which we have legal title as well as certain MBS. To the extent Alesco Loan Holdings Trust or another subsidiary of ours invests in other types of assets such as RMBS, CMBS and mezzanine loans, we will not treat such assets as qualifying assets for purposes of determining the subsidiary’s eligibility for the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) unless such treatment is consistent with the guidance of the SEC as set forth in no-action letters, interpretive guidance or an exemptive order. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, four of our subsidiaries, Alesco TPS Holdings LLC, Sunset TPS Holdings LLC, Alesco Holdings Ltd., and Sunset Holdings Ltd., are currently relying on the exemption provided under Section 3(c)(1), and therefore, our ownership interests in these subsidiaries are deemed to be investment securities for purposes of the 40% test. We must monitor our holdings in these four subsidiaries and any future subsidiaries relying on the exemptions provided under Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) to ensure that the value of our investment in such subsidiaries, together with any other investment securities we may own, does not exceed 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. If the combined value of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, exceeds 40% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change substantially the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters and our manager will have the right to terminate our management agreement. We have not received a no-action letter from the SEC regarding whether our investment strategy complies with the exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act that we are relying upon. To the extent that the SEC provides more specific or different guidance regarding, for example, the treatment of assets as qualifying assets or real estate-related assets, we may be required to adjust our investment strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the investment strategy we have chosen, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 43 Table of Contents We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our charter and Maryland law may defer or prevent a takeover bid or change in control. Certain provisions of our charter and Maryland law may defer or prevent unsolicited takeover attempts or attempts to change our board of directors. These provisions include a general limit on any holder beneficially owning more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock, a provision that our directors may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors and the power of our board of directors to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. In connection with the proposed merger with Cohen, our board of directors intends to reclassify one share of our preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, as one Series A Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 4,983,557 shares of our preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, as 4,983,557 shares of Series B Voting Non-Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share. The Series A Voting Convertible Preferred Stock will have no economic rights but will entitle the holder thereof to elect one-third of our board of directors. In 2010, the holder of the Series A Voting Convertible Preferred Stock may convert the Series A Voting Convertible Preferred Stock into Series B Voting Non-Convertible Preferred Stock, which will have no economic rights but will entitle such holder to vote together with our stockholders on all matters presented to our stockholders and to exercise approximately 31.5% of the voting power of our common stock. Our board of directors may establish a series of our common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our ownership limitation may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To assist us in preserving our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding shares of any class or series of capital stock. The ownership limitations could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. Our charter does not permit ownership in excess of 9.8% of the shares in value of any class or series of our stock, and attempts to acquire shares of any class or series of our stock in excess of the 9.8% limit without prior approval from our board of directors may be void, and could result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust. Our charter prohibits beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock. Our charter’s constructive ownership rules are 44 Table of Contents complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of the shares of any class or series of our stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of the shares of any class or series of our stock, and thus be subject to the ownership limitations. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the board of directors may be void, and could result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust. Tax Risks Certain risk factors relating to the Company’s qualification as a REIT may no longer be applicable if the Company completes it merger with Cohen & Company. As a result of the merger, the Company expects that as of January 1, 2009 it would cease to qualify as a REIT and be treated as a regular C Corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and accordingly would be subject to regular corporate income tax on its taxable income. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. We believe that we have been organized and operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the event that we do not complete the proposed merger with Cohen. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our shares. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. In particular, at least 75% of our assets at the end of each calendar quarter must consist of real estate assets, government securities, cash and cash items. For this purpose, “real estate assets” generally include interests in real property, such as land, buildings, leasehold interests in real property, stock of other entities that qualify as REITs, interests in mortgage loans secured by real property, investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following the receipt of new capital and regular or residual interests in a Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit, or a REMIC. In addition, the amount of securities of a single issuer, other than a TRS, that we hold must generally not exceed either 5% of the value of our gross assets or 10% of the vote or value of such issuer’s outstanding securities. Certain of the assets that we hold or intend to hold, including TruPS, leveraged loans and equity interests in CDOs or CLOs that hold TruPS or leveraged loans, are not qualified and will not be qualified real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. RMBS and CMBS securities should generally qualify as real estate assets. However, to the extent that we own non-REMIC collateralized mortgage obligations or other debt instruments secured by mortgage loans (rather than by real property) or secured by non-real estate assets, or debt securities that are not secured by mortgages on real property, those securities are likely not qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. We generally will be treated as the owner of any assets that collateralize CDO or CLO transactions to the extent that we retain substantially all of the equity of the securitization vehicle and do not make an election to treat such securitization vehicle as a TRS, as described in further detail below. As noted above, in order to comply with the REIT asset tests and 75% gross income test, at least 75% of our assets and 75% of our gross income must be derived from qualifying real estate assets, whether or not such assets would otherwise represent our best investment alternative. For example, since neither TruPS, leveraged loans nor equity in corporate entities we create to hold TruPS or leveraged loans are qualifying real estate assets, we must hold substantial investments in other qualifying real estate assets, including RMBS and CMBS which may have lower yields than TruPS. 45 Table of Contents It may be possible to reduce the impact of the REIT asset and gross income requirements by holding certain assets through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The prohibited transaction tax may apply to any sale by us of assets to a CDO or CLO and to any sale by us of CDO or CLO securities and therefore may limit our ability to sell assets to or equity in CDOs, CLOs and other assets. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in CDO and CLO transactions through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full U.S. federal corporate income tax. Our qualification as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the accuracy of legal opinions or advice rendered or given or statements by the issuers of securities in which we invest, and the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and result in significant corporate level tax. When purchasing securities, we have relied and may rely on opinions or advice of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and also to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% REIT gross income test. In addition, when purchasing CDO and CLO equity, we have relied and may rely on opinions or advice of counsel regarding the qualification of the CDO or CLO for exemption from U.S. corporate income tax and the qualification of interests in such CDO or CLO as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. Certain financing activities may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and increase the tax liability of our stockholders. We have and may continue to enter into transactions that result in us or a portion of our assets being treated as a “taxable mortgage pool” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Specifically, we have and may continue to securitize RMBS assets that we acquire and such securitizations will likely result in us owning interests in a taxable mortgage pool. We may enter into such transactions at the REIT level. We are taxed at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income, referred to as “excess inclusion income,” arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our shares held in record name by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from tax on unrelated business taxable income. To the extent that common stock owned by “disqualified organizations” is held in record name by a broker/dealer or other nominee, the broker/dealer or other nominee would be liable for the corporate level tax on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the common stock held by the broker/dealer or other nominee on behalf of the “disqualified organizations.” We expect that disqualified organizations own our shares. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our investors, including investors that are not disqualified organizations, will bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our common stock in record name will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. In addition, if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income is fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax 46 Table of Contents withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. If the stockholder is a REIT, a regulated investment company, common trust fund or other pass-through entity, our allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity. Accordingly, such investors should be aware that a significant portion of our income may be considered excess inclusion income. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes that could not be included in any consolidated corporate tax return. Additionally, we may currently include into income interest accrued on debt instruments. To the extent this interest is from debt instruments in default, we may have increased taxable income without corresponding cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. We may lose our REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, successfully challenges our characterization of income from our foreign TRSs. We likely will be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our foreign TRSs, including from our equity investments in CDOs and CLOs which hold TruPS and leveraged loans. We intend to treat certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and certain other enumerated classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in our foreign TRSs are technically neither dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and there is no other clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income. However, based on advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions, to the extent distributed by a foreign TRS in the year accrued, as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such income is not qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it and our other nonqualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income and/or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of our interests in our foreign TRSs to ensure that the income recognized by us from our foreign TRSs or such other corporations does not exceed 5% of our gross income, or cease to qualify as a REIT. The ability to utilize TRSs will be limited by our qualification as a REIT, which may, in turn, negatively affect our ability to execute our business plan and to make distributions to our stockholders. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. We expect to continue to own interests in TRSs, particularly in connection with our CDO and CLO transactions involving TruPS and leveraged loans. However, our ability to hold TruPS and leveraged loans, as well as CDOs and CLOs that are structured as TRSs, will be limited, which may adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and to make distributions to our stockholders. The failure of a loan subject to a repurchase agreement or a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We have entered into and we may continue to enter into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sell certain of our loan and other assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. As of the date of this filing, we have no outstanding borrowings under repurchase agreements. We believe that we have been and will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the owner of the loan and other assets that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the loan and other assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. 47 Table of Contents In addition we may acquire mezzanine loans, which are loans secured by equity interests in a partnership or limited liability company that directly or indirectly owns real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if its meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. We may acquire mezzanine loans that may not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. In the event we own a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor, the IRS could challenge such loan’s treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests, and if such a challenge were sustained, we could fail to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our dividends will not be deductible, and we will be subject to corporate level tax on our net taxable income. This would reduce the cash available to make distributions to our stockholders and may have significant adverse consequences on the value of our shares. We have been organized and operated and will continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the event that we do not complete the proposed merger with Cohen. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may also affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets and sources of our gross income. If more than one of our Kleros Real Estate CDOs suffers an event of default which results in the assets of those CDOs being liquidated and we are not able to invest in sufficient other REIT qualifying assets, our ability to qualify as a REIT could be materially adversely affected. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net income, excluding net capital gains. We have earned income the qualification of which may be uncertain for purposes of the REIT gross income tests due to a lack of authority directly on point. No assurance can be given that we have been or will continue to be successful in operating in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. If we fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our qualification as a REIT at any time, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year of our disqualification. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our U.S. stockholders who are taxed at individual tax rates would be taxed on our dividends at long-term capital gains rates through 2010 and that our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. For these purposes, a U.S. stockholder is a beneficial owner of our shares that for U.S. federal income tax purposes is: • a citizen or resident of the United States; 48 Table of Contents • a corporation (including an entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any of its states or the District of Columbia); • an estate whose income is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source; or • any trust if (1) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (2) it has a valid election in place to be treated as a U.S. person. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes that could not be included in any consolidated corporate income tax return. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and would adversely affect the value of our shares. An ownership change will limit our ability to use certain losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes and may increase our tax liability. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its previously incurred losses to reduce its tax liability. It is possible that trading of our stock will cause us to undergo an ownership change. In addition, it is possible that our planned merger with Cohen, combined with other transactions occurring before or after the merger, will cause us to undergo an ownership change. In that event, we would not be able to use certain of our pre-ownership change losses in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 382. Such limitation is generally determined by multiplying our equity value by the long term tax exempt rate at the time of the ownership change. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to use these pre-ownership change losses to offset future taxable income. We will have to pay some taxes and may be subject to others, which may reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. We also are subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among us and our TRSs are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. In addition, under certain circumstances we could be subject to a penalty tax if we fail to meet certain REIT requirements but nonetheless maintain our qualification as a REIT. For example, we may be required to pay a penalty tax with respect to certain income we earned in connection with our equity investments in CDO or CLO entities owning TruPS and leveraged loans in the event such income is determined not to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test but we are otherwise able to remain qualified as a REIT. To the extent that we are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we are subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of our ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. 49 Table of Contents We have distributed and will continue to distribute our net income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. There is no requirement that our domestic TRSs distribute their after-tax net income to us and such TRSs that we form may, to the extent consistent with maintaining our qualification as a REIT, determine not to make any current distributions to us. However, our foreign TRSs, such as TRSs that we formed in connection with CDOs and CLOs, are and will generally be deemed to distribute their earnings to us on an annual basis for U.S. federal income tax purposes, regardless of whether such TRSs actually distribute their earnings. These deemed distributions will be included as income for purposes of the foregoing distribution requirements. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined by GAAP because, for example, expected capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we have invested and may invest in assets including the equity of CDO and CLO entities that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as “phantom income.” Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our net income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we may incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. If our CDOs that are foreign TRSs are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and that they would have available to pay their creditors. Our CDOs and CLOs organized to hold TruPS and leveraged loans, including those acquired as a result of the merger, are typically organized as Cayman Islands companies. There is a specific exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restricts their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent located in the United States. Our foreign CDOs and CLOs that are TRSs rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they are not subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging this tax treatment, it could greatly reduce the amount that those CDOs would have available to distribute to us and to pay to their creditors. Although our use of TRSs may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs is limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Domestic TRSs that we have formed, including for purposes of entering into our TruPS and leveraged loan warehouse facilities, will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but are not required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that 50 Table of Contents the aggregate value of the securities of these TRSs, together with the securities we may hold in our other TRSs, will continue to be less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including our TRS securities). Furthermore, we monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of TRS securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. The value of the securities that we hold in our TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we have complied or will be able to continue to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Our ability to satisfy the income and asset tests applicable to REITs depends on the nature of our assets, the sources of our income, and factual determinations, including the value of the real property underlying our loans. As a REIT, 75% of our assets must consist of specified real estate related assets and other specified types of investments, and 75% of our gross income must be earned from real estate related sources and other specified types of income. If the value of the real estate securing each of our loans, determined at the date of acquisition of the loans, is less than the highest outstanding balance of the loan for a particular taxable year, then a portion of that loan will not be a qualifying real estate asset and a portion of the interest income will not be qualifying real estate income. Accordingly, in order to determine the extent to which our loans constitute qualifying assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and the extent to which the interest earned on our loan constitutes qualifying income for purposes of the REIT income tests, we need to determine the value of the underlying real estate collateral at the time we acquire each loan. Although we seek to be prudent in making these determinations, no assurance can be given that the IRS might not disagree with our determinations and assert that a lower value is applicable, which could negatively impact our ability to qualify as a REIT. These considerations also might restrict the types of loans that we can make in the future. In addition, the need to comply with those requirements may cause us to acquire other assets that qualify as real estate that are not part of our overall business strategy and might not otherwise be the best investment alternative for us. A portion of our REIT qualifying assets are financed with CDOs that have experienced an event of default. We received written notice from the trustees of Kleros Real Estate I, II, III and IV that each CDO experienced an event of default. With respect to Kleros Real Estate III, we received written notice from the trustee that the controlling class debtholder had submitted a notice of liquidation. The events of default provide the controlling class debtholder in each CDO with the option to liquidate all of the MBS assets collateralizing the particular CDO. The proceeds of any such liquidation will be used to repay the controlling class debtholder. In the event that liquidation occurs, our REIT qualifying assets will be significantly reduced and our qualifying income for purposes of the 75% and 95% REIT income tests will be significantly reduced. Our inability to generate sufficient amounts of qualifying income may cause us to utilize our available cash to acquire other assets that qualify as real estate or it may limit our ability to qualify as a REIT. If one of our remaining Kleros Real Estate CDOs is liquidated and we are not able to invest in sufficient other REIT qualifying assets, our ability to qualify as a REIT could be materially adversely affected. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and therefore may be subject to a 35% maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on ordinary income. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and 51 Table of Contents estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our shares. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we may not have the ability to pay dividends in the future. We have made and will make distributions to our stockholders, if authorized by our board of directors and declared by us, in amounts such that all or substantially all of our net taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments and limitations, is distributed. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level, and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be required to or be able to make distributions in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. On December 31, 2008, the Company received a letter containing comments from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance, or the Staff, in connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 29, 2008 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, which is referred to herein as the SEC Documents. The Company responded to the letter on January 21, 2009. On February 17, 2009, the Company received a supplemental letter from the Staff requesting the Company to further clarify certain of its disclosure in the SEC Documents. The Company responded on March 2, 2009. The Company does not believe that there are any unresolved comments with the SEC. 