ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors in evaluating our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations or an investment in our stock. The risk factors described in this section have been separated into three groups: • risks relating to our business and industry; • risks relating to our financial indebtedness and structure; and • risks relating to our common stock. In addition to the information presented in this annual report, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, business or operations in the future. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We operate in highly competitive markets which may lead to a decrease in our revenue, increased costs, increased customer churn or a reduction in the rate of customer acquisition. The markets for broadband internet, television, telephony and business services in which we operate are highly competitive and, in certain markets, we compete with established companies which hold positions of market power in these and/or closely related markets. We face competition from these companies, other established companies and potential new entrants. Technological advances may increase competition or alter the competitive dynamics of markets in which we operate, for example, distributions of entertainment and other information over the internet, as well as the distribution of entertainment through mobile phones and other devices which continue to increase in popularity. The number of media choices available to subscribers. In addition, continued consolidation within the media industry may permit more competitors to offer “triple-play” bundles of digital television, fixed line telephony and broadband services, or “quad-play” bundles including mobile telephone services. Consolidation by competitors can create economies of scale that we cannot replicate, for example in the mobile sector. Many of our competitors are part of multinational groups, and some may have substantially greater financial resources and benefit from greater economies of scale than we do. In order to compete effectively, we may be required to reduce the prices we charge for our services or increase the value of our services without being able to recoup associated costs. We may also need to pursue legal and regulatory actions. In addition, some of our competitors offer services that we are unable to offer. Any increase in competitive pressures in our markets may lead to a decrease in our revenue, increased costs, increased customer churn or a reduction in the rate of customer acquisition, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See also “Business—Competition”. The sectors in which we compete are subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, and the effect of technological changes on our businesses cannot be predicted. The broadband internet, television, telephony and business services sectors are characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. Advances in current technologies, such as VoIP (over fixed and mobile technologies), 3D TV, mobile instant messaging (including both SMS and BBS), wireless fidelity, or Wi-Fi, the extension of local Wi-Fi networks across greater distances, or WiMax, LTE, internet protocol television, or the 23 Table of Contents emergence of new technologies, such as white space technologies (which uses portions of the old analog TV spectrum), or the availability to our competitors of 4G spectrum and technology, may result in our core offerings becoming less competitive or render our existing products and services obsolete. We may not be able to develop new products and services, or keep up with trends in the technology market, at the same rate as our competitors (or at all). The pace of change may be such that we fail to seize opportunities to become market disrupters or to adequately respond to market disrupters. Any of these could lead to a decrease in our revenue, increased costs, increased customer churn or a reduction in the rate of customer acquisition. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See also “Business—Competition”. The cost of implementing emerging and new technologies could be significant, and our ability to fund that implementation may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing. Similarly, the deployment of new technologies in the spectrum frequencies in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on the existing services offered by us, with a consequential material adverse effect on our businesses either through greater competition or through interference with our customer premises equipment, or CPE. Our fixed line telephony revenue is declining and unlikely to improve. Fixed line telephony usage is in decline across the industry, with the rate of decline in lines used by businesses being nearly twice as high as that in the residential fixed telephony market. There is a risk that business and residential customers will migrate from using fixed line telephony to using other forms of telephony such as VoIP, or mobile telephony. There is no assurance that our fixed line customers will migrate to our mobile phones and they may eventually shift to other providers of mobile telephony services. Such a migration could have a material effect on our results of operations, revenue and financial condition. Adverse economic developments could reduce customer spending for our TV, broadband, and telephony services and increase churn, either of which could therefore have a material adverse effect on our revenue. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from residential subscribers who could be impacted by adverse economic developments in the U.K. Accordingly unfavorable economic developments such as a double dip recession in the U.K. could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for many of our products and services. Customers could elect to use fewer higher margin products and services or could turn to lower cost products and services offered by other companies. For example, there may be increased reliance on Skype and other free internet-based telephony solutions in lieu of our fixed and mobile telephony services, and there may be an increased reliance on video streaming over the internet such as through Netflix, LOVEFILM, BBC iPlayer and ITV Player instead of relying on our TV products and services. Such a consumer shift could in turn adversely impact our ability to increase, or in certain cases, maintain our revenue levels. A failure in our network and information systems could significantly disturb our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on those operations, our business, our results of operations and financial condition. Certain network and information systems are critical to our business activities. Network and information systems may be affected by cyber security incidents which can result from deliberate attacks or system failures. These may include, but are not limited to computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, or other malicious activities. Our network and information systems may also be the object of power outages, fire, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, war or other similar events. Theft of metals is particularly acute in the U.K. due to high prices for scrap metal, and our network is not immune to such thefts. Such events could result in a degradation of or disruption to, our cable and non-cable services, could prevent us from billing and collecting revenue due to us or could damage our equipment and data or could result in situations which damage our reputation. Disruption to services could result in excessive call volumes to call centers which may not be able to cope with such volume, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and brand. Our plans for recovery and resilience to such challenges may not be sufficient. 24 Table of Contents Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to our customers, prevent us from billing and collecting revenue due to us, or that otherwise prevent us from meeting our obligations to our customers in a timely manner, would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and revenue. These network and information systems-related events could also require significant expenditures to repair or replace damaged networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Further, any security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, penetration by viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks or those of our business partners (including customer, personnel and vendor data) could damage our reputation, result in legal and/or regulatory action against us, and require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. The occurrence of any such network or information system-related events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Unauthorized access to our network resulting in piracy could result in a loss of revenue. We rely on the integrity of our technology to ensure that our services are provided only to identifiable paying customers. Increasingly sophisticated means of illicit piracy of television, broadband and telephony services are continually being developed in response to evolving technologies. Furthermore, billing and revenue generation for our pay television services rely on the proper functioning of our encryption systems. While we continue to invest in measures to manage unauthorized access to our networks, any such unauthorized access to our cable television service could result in a loss of revenue, and any failure to respond to security breaches could raise concerns under our agreements with content providers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers and contractors to provide necessary hardware, software or operational support and are reliant on them in a way which could economically disadvantage us. We rely on third-party vendors to supply us with a significant amount of customer equipment, hardware, software and operational support necessary to operate our network and systems and provide our services. In many cases, we have made substantial investments in the equipment or software of a particular supplier, making it difficult for us in the short term to change supply and maintenance relationships in the event that our initial supplier is unwilling or unable to offer us competitive prices or to provide the equipment, software or support that we require. In addition, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may soon require us to report on “conflict materials” used in our products and the due diligence plan we put in place to track whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in certain of our products. We also rely upon a number of third-party contractors to construct and maintain our network and to install our equipment in customers’ homes. Quality issues or installation or service delays relating to these contractors could result in liability, reputational harm or contribute to customer dissatisfaction, which could result in additional churn or discourage potential new customers. We are furthermore exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our suppliers, some of whom may have been adversely affected by the global economic downturn. If our suppliers were to discontinue certain products, were unable to provide equipment to meet our specifications or interrupt the provision of equipment or services to us, whether as a result of bankruptcy or otherwise, our business and profitability could be materially adversely affected. The “Virgin” brand is not under our control and the activities of the Virgin Group and other licensees could have a material adverse effect on the goodwill of customers towards us as a licensee. The “Virgin” brand is integral to our corporate identity. We are reliant on the general goodwill of consumers towards the Virgin brand. Consequently, adverse publicity in relation to the Virgin Group or its principals, 25 Table of Contents particularly Sir Richard Branson who is closely associated with the brand, or in relation to another Virgin name licensee could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any negative publicity generated by or associated with the Virgin Group or any other licensee of the “Virgin” name and logo (particularly in the U.K. where we do business) could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. Our inability to obtain popular programming or to obtain it at a reasonable cost could potentially have a material adverse effect on the number of customers or reduce margins. We enter into agreements for the provision of television programs and channels distributed via our entertainment service with program providers, such as public and commercial broadcasters, or providers of pay or on demand television. We have historically obtained a significant amount of our premium programming and some of our basic programming and pay per view sporting events from BSkyB. BSkyB is also one of our main competitors in the television services business. BSkyB is a leading supplier of programming to pay television platforms in the U.K. and is the exclusive supplier of some programming, including its Sky Sports channels and Sky Movies channels, which are the most popular premium subscription sports and film channels available in the U.K. In 2010, Ofcom imposed new license conditions on BSkyB that provide for a WMO obligation on Sky that regulate (or set a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory requirement for) the price and terms of supply of certain of BSkyB’s Sports Channels. While BSkyB and others have appealed the imposition of these license conditions, we and others have appealed that the intervention did not go far enough and we are seeking to overturn it. See “Our Business—Regulatory Matters—Regulation of Television Services.” We now buy BSkyB wholesale premium content on the basis of carriage agreements entered into on June 4, 2010, which provide for the wholesale distribution of BSkyB’s basic channels and its premium sports and movies channels on our cable TV service. This agreement expires on June 30, 2013, after which we will have to negotiate a new agreement for the supply of BSkyB premium sports and movie channels. However, for SD we are still exposed to BSkyB changing the ratecard terms of supply on 60 days’ notice, and to wholesale price changes for Sky Sports 1 and 2 which can occur under Ofcom’s price regulation mechanism following changes to BSkyB’s own retail prices. We are also exposed to BSkyB offering HD versions of its channels exclusively to its digital satellite customers and not to us. Moreover, the launch of Sky Atlantic exclusively to its own retail customers on the satellite platform is an example of the ongoing risk of Sky migrating attractive basic content to new channels that it is not contractually obliged to supply to us and then withholding supply or setting uneconomic terms for supply. Other significant programming suppliers include the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, UKTV, Five, Viacom Inc., ESPN, Discovery Communications Inc. and Turner, a division of Time Warner Inc. Our dependence on these suppliers for television programming could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide attractive programming at a reasonable cost. Any loss of programs could negatively affect the quality and variety of the programming delivered to our customers. In addition, there is the risk that suppliers will become exclusive providers to other platforms, including BSkyB, which reduces our ability to offer the same or similar content to our customers. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and increase customer churn. Virgin Mobile relies on Everything Everywhere’s network to carry its communications traffic. Our services to mobile customers rely on our agreement with Everything Everywhere for voice, non-voice and other telecommunications services and for ancillary services such as pre-pay account management. If the agreement with Everything Everywhere is terminated, or if Everything Everywhere fails to provide the services required under the agreement, or if Everything Everywhere fails to deploy and maintain its network, and we are unable to find a replacement network operator on a timely and commercial basis (if at all), we could be prevented from carrying on our mobile business. If we find a replacement network operator, we may only be able to carry 26 Table of Contents on our mobile business on less favorable terms. Additionally, migration of all or some of our customer base to any such replacement network operator would be dependent in part on Everything Everywhere and could entail potential technical or commercial risk. Everything Everywhere is also a customer of Virgin Media Business. Any disagreements between Everything Everywhere and Virgin Mobile or between Everything Everywhere and Virgin Media Business could have a material adverse effect on the relationship of the other Virgin Media businesses and Everything Everywhere. We do not insure the underground portion of our cable network and various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. Our cable network is one of our key assets. However, we do not insure the underground portion of our cable network or various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. Almost all our cable network is constructed underground. As a result, any catastrophe that affects our underground cable network or our pavement-based electronics could prevent us from providing services to our customers and result in substantial uninsured losses which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to currency and interest rate risks. We are subject to currency exchange rate risks because substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are paid in U.K. pounds sterling, but we pay interest and principal obligations with respect to a portion of our indebtedness in U.S. dollars and euros. To the extent that the pound sterling declines in value against the U.S. dollar and the euro, the effective cost of servicing our U.S. dollar and euro-denominated debt will be higher. Changes in the exchange rate result in foreign currency gains or losses. We are also subject to interest rate risks. As of December 31, 2011, we had interest determined on a variable basis, either through unhedged variable rate debt or derivative hedging contracts, on £1,108.9 million of our long term debt. An increase in interest rates of 1% would increase our interest cost by approximately £11.1 million per year. We also incur costs in U.S. dollars, euros and South African rand, in the ordinary course of our business, including for customer premise equipment and network maintenance services. Any deterioration in the value of the pound relative to the U.S. dollar, euro or the rand could cause an increase in the effective cost of purchases made in these currencies as only part of these exposures are hedged. We are subject to tax in more than one tax jurisdiction and our structure poses various tax risks. We are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions, in particular the U.S. and the U.K. Our effective tax rate and tax liability will be affected by a number of factors in addition to our operating results, including the amount of taxable income in particular jurisdictions, the tax rates in those jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions, the manner in which and extent to which we transfer funds to and repatriate funds from our subsidiaries, accounting standards and changes in accounting standards, and future changes in the law. We may incur losses in one jurisdiction that cannot be offset against income earned in a different jurisdiction and so we may pay income taxes in one jurisdiction for a particular period even though on an overall basis we incur a net loss for that period. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through U.K. subsidiaries that are owned by one or more members of a U.S. holding company group. We do not expect to have current U.K. tax liabilities on our operating earnings for at least the medium term. However, our operations may give rise to U.S. tax on “Subpart F” income generated by our U.K. subsidiaries, or on repatriations of cash from our U.K. operating subsidiaries to the U.S. holding company group. We believe that our U.K. subsidiaries have a substantial U.S. tax basis which may be available to avoid or reduce U.S. tax on repatriation of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries. However, there is 27 Table of Contents a risk that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may seek to challenge the amount of that tax basis or that we will not be able to utilize such basis under applicable tax law. As a result, although in accordance with applicable law we will seek to minimize our U.S. tax liability as well as our overall worldwide tax liability, we may incur U.S. tax liabilities with respect to repatriation of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries to the United States. The amount of the tax liability, if any, would depend upon a multitude of factors, including the amount of cash actually repatriated. We also pay Value Added Tax, or VAT, on our revenue generating activities in the U.K. From time to time, the U.K. tax authorities review the basis upon which our VAT liability is assessed. We are currently engaged in a dispute with the tax authorities over one of these reviews. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010—Contingent Losses.” Acquisitions and other strategic transactions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. From time to time we have made acquisitions, dispositions and have entered into other strategic transactions. In connection with such transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and suppliers, incur significant indebtedness, or experience delays or fail to proceed with announced transactions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or our reputation. We have suffered losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and could do so again in the future. In accordance with the Intangibles—Goodwill and Other Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification, or FASB ASC, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). In addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, in accordance with the Property, Plant and Equipment Topic of the FASB ASC. On December 31, 2011, we had goodwill and intangible assets of £2,017.5 billion. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment charge being required. Any downward revision in the fair value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets has a material effect on our reported net income. We are subject to significant regulation, and changes in U.K. and EU laws, regulations or governmental policy affecting the conduct of our business may have a material adverse effect on our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. Our principal business activities are regulated and supervised by Ofcom and the U.K. Office of Fair Trading, among other regulators. Regulatory change is an ongoing process in the communications sector at both U.K. and EU level. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy affecting our activities and those of our competitors could significantly influence how we operate our business and introduce new products and services. For example, regulatory changes relating to our activities and those of our competitors, such as changes relating to third party access to cable networks, the costs of interconnection with other networks or the prices of competing products and services, or any change in policy allowing more favorable conditions for other operators, could adversely affect our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. In particular, following the transposition of recent amendments to European directives into U.K. law, Ofcom may attempt to use the non-significant market power, or non-SMP, access provisions to require us to make available access to our network to third parties. In addition, Ofcom may look to impose regulation on the cable network, which is currently unregulated. Such regulation would allow customers to switch with ease to another provider without 28 Table of Contents informing us. Our ability to introduce new products and services may also be affected if we cannot predict how existing or future laws, regulations or policies would apply to such products or services. In addition, our business and the industry in which we operate are subject to investigation by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Any such action could harm our reputation and result in increased costs to the business. We may experience difficulties in providing our services efficiently to our customers whilst the London 2012 Olympic Games are taking place which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our reputation and ability to retain our customers Throughout the period July 27, 2012 to August 12, 2012 London will be hosting the 2012 Olympic Games. Certain network and information systems may be affected by a significant increase in usage of our services which could result in outages or our failure to adequately service our customers. An increase in the use of mobile telephony in any particular area (for example, at the Olympic sites) could cause networks to become congested and may cause disruption to the service we provide. We may also experience a significant increase in broadband users simultaneously streaming videos across the network. This could have a negative effect on the speed and hence the customer experience of our broadband service. Our access to street cabinets and customer sites, especially in areas surrounding Olympic sites and in central London, for the purpose of installations, repairs and maintenance, will be affected by the Olympic Games (and the Paralympic Games which follow the Olympic Games). We have already been notified that we may not be able to undertake planned excavation works in many parts of London, not only during the Olympics and Paralympics but also for several weeks in advance due to security and other restrictions. All of the above could adversely affect our reputation, result in a loss of customers and could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Financial Indebtedness and Structure We have substantial indebtedness which may have a material adverse effect on our available cash flow, our ability to obtain additional financing if necessary in the future, our flexibility in reacting to competitive and technological changes and our operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. Our consolidated total long term debt, net of £77 million current portion, was £5,779 million as of December 31, 2011. Our ability to pay principal and interest on or to refinance the outstanding indebtedness depends upon our operating performance, which will be affected by, among other things, general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Moreover, we may not be able to refinance or redeem such debt on commercially reasonable terms, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will have to be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on existing indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the competitive environment and the industry in which we operate, and to technological and other changes may be limited; • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; • our substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or adverse developments in our business; and • we are exposed to risks inherent in interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. 29 Table of Contents Any of these or other consequences or events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, which could adversely affect our business and operations. We may not be able to fund our debt service obligations in the future. We have significant principal payments due from 2015 onwards that could require a partial or comprehensive refinancing of our senior credit facility and other debt instruments. Our ability to implement such a refinancing successfully would be significantly dependent on stable debt capital markets. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain sufficient cash flow in the future for the payment of principal or interest on our indebtedness when due. Consequently, we may be forced to raise cash or reduce expenses by doing one or more of the following: • raising additional debt; • restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness prior to maturity, and/or on unfavorable terms; • selling or disposing of some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; • issuing equity or equity-related instruments that will dilute the equity ownership interest of existing stockholders; or • foregoing business opportunities, including the introduction of new products and services, acquisitions and joint ventures. We cannot be sure that any of, or a combination of, the above actions would be sufficient to fund our debt service obligations, particularly in times of turbulent capital markets. The covenants under our debt agreements place certain limitations on our ability to finance future operations and how we manage our business. The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain financial maintenance tests and restrictive covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional debt and limit the discretion of our management over various business matters. For example, the financial maintenance tests include leverage and interest coverage ratios, and the restrictive covenants impact our ability to: • pay dividends or make other distributions, or redeem or repurchase equity interests or subordinated obligations; • make investments; • sell assets, including the capital stock of subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions and certain vendor financing arrangements; • create liens; • enter into agreements that restrict some of our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, transfer assets or make intercompany loans; • merge or consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. Although these limitations are subject to significant exceptions and qualifications, if we breach any of these covenants, or are unable to comply with the required financial ratios, we may be in default under our debt instruments. A significant portion of our indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due thereunder. 30 Table of Contents These restrictions could also materially adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. We may also incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable under our current indebtedness. We are a holding company dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Virgin Media Inc. and a number of its subsidiaries are holding companies with no independent operations or significant assets other than investments in their subsidiaries. Each of these holding companies depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. The terms of our senior credit facility and other indebtedness limit the payment of dividends, loan repayments and other distributions to or from these companies under certain circumstances. Various agreements governing our debt may restrict and, in some cases, may also prohibit the ability of these subsidiaries to move cash within their restricted group. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to further taxation. Applicable law may also limit the amounts that some of our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay as dividends or distributions on their equity interests or as loans, or even prevent such payments. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Conversion of our convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any issuance by us of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes will dilute the equity ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares of our common stock upon prior conversion of our convertible senior notes. Additionally, our convertible senior notes include anti-dilution and “make-whole” premium provisions that, if triggered, would result in an increase in the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible senior notes. Conversion of the convertible senior notes in circumstances where these provisions have operated could have a significantly greater dilutive effect. Sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the convertible senior notes may encourage short selling by market participants. We may in the future seek to raise funds through equity offerings, which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. In the future, we may determine to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or our common stock. In any case, the result would ultimately be dilutive to our common stock by increasing the number of shares outstanding. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. We may not continue to pay dividends, and the failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. The decision to pay a dividend and the amount of any dividend is solely at the discretion of the Board. Our Board may decide not to continue to pay dividends on our common stock at the same level as in recent years, or at all. Any failure to pay a dividend could adversely affect our stock price. 31 Table of Contents The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets, and stock prices of highly leveraged companies, in particular, have been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to additional factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and market conditions, actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flow, our competitors’ earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets and the market for telecommunications stocks, governmental legislation or regulation. Sales of stock by stockholders in the Company may decrease the price of the common stock. A number of our stockholders have large holdings of our stock. Sales by any stockholders of a substantial amount of the company’s common stock may significantly reduce the market price of the common stock of the company. Moreover, a perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of such common stock could depress the trading price of the company’s common stock for a considerable period. Sales of the company’s common stock, and the possibility of these sales, could make it more difficult for the company to sell equity, or equity related securities, in the future at a time, and price, that it considers appropriate. Provisions of our debt agreements, our stockholder rights plan, our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and our contracts could prevent or delay a change of control of us. We may, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase substantially all of our outstanding senior notes, senior secured notes and convertible senior notes, and repay our outstanding indebtedness under our senior credit facility and other indebtedness. We or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes or repay that indebtedness in those circumstances. If we or any possible acquirer cannot repurchase those notes or repay our indebtedness under our senior credit facility and other indebtedness in the event of a change of control of us, the failure to do so would constitute an event of default under the agreements under which that indebtedness was incurred and could result in a cross-default under other indebtedness that does not have similar provisions. The threat of this could have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices, or otherwise which they may deem to be in their best interests. Our stockholder rights plan, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our ability to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to third parties without stockholder approval may have the effect, alone or in combination with each other, of preventing or making more difficult transactions involving a change of control of us. We are subject to the Delaware business combinations law that, subject to limited exceptions, prohibits some Delaware corporations from engaging in some business combinations or other transactions with any stockholder who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired that interest. The terms of certain of our existing agreements relating to changes of control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of us. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 