Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We are subject to significant competition and we expect that competition will intensify. The level of competition is intense in each of the markets in which we compete, and we expect competition to increase. In particular, our fixed and mobile telephone, broadband and cable television businesses compete with British Telecommunications Plc, or BT, in telephone and broadband services; Vodafone, O2, Orange and others in mobile telephone services; and British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc, or BSkyB, in multi channel television, telephone and broadband services, each of whom has significant operational scale, resources and national distribution capacity. We also compete with numerous internet service providers and indirect telephone access operators that offer telephone, broadband and dial-up internet services over BT’s network. We will face increasing competition from mobile telephone network providers and new market entrants, including those providing VoIP and IPTV. The increase in 27 competition will be compounded by technological changes and business consolidation, which may permit more competitors to offer the “triple-play” of digital television, fixed line telephone and broadband services, or “quad-play” bundles including mobile telephone services. In the digital television market, we compete primarily with BSkyB in providing digital pay television services. Competition increased as a result of the launch of Freeview in October 2002, which provides approximately 43 digital terrestrial TV channels on a free-to-air basis to consumers who have purchased a Freeview digital set-top box, digital or digital TV recorder television. In March 2004, Top Up TV launched a pay-television service offering approximately 120 programs from 19 channels for a fixed fee to subscribers who otherwise receive Freeview and have purchased a Top Up TV set-top box. This year, BT Vision launched a PC download service of video on demand home entertainment content over a broadband connection. BSkyB and others offer a similar service. 28 Our broadband service faces increased competition from BT, Pipex, Orange, Tiscali and others, as well as new providers such as BSkyB and Carphone Warehouse (TalkTalk). Competitors may use new alternative access technology such as advanced, faster asymmetric digital subscriber lines, or ADSL+2, to deliver higher speeds. Local loop unbundling may decrease costs for new entrants and existing BT wholesale customers, leading to increased pricing competition. Our fixed line telephony business competes with fixed line operators such as BT, telephone local loop unbundlers such as Carphone Warehouse (TalkTalk) and BSkyB, and several mobile telephone operators such as Vodafone, O2, Orange and T-Mobile. Our business services also face a wide range of competitors, including BT, Cable & Wireless Communications plc, COLT Telecom Group plc and Thus plc, and a number of regional service providers. The nature of this competition varies depending on geography, service offerings and the size of the marketable area. In the mobile telephony market, we face direct competition from mobile network operators such as O2, Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile and 3, and other mobile virtual network operators, such as Carphone Warehouse, Tesco Mobile and BT Mobile, in addition to fixed line telephone operators and internet telephony providers. Many of our competitors are part of large multinational groups, have substantial advertising and marketing budgets, have greater retail presence and may benefit from greater economies of scale than we do. As a mobile virtual network operator, our per unit economies may differ substantially from our competitors with their own networks, which may impact our ability to compete. In order to compete, we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our services or increase the value of our services without being able to recoup associated costs. Reduced prices or increased costs would have a negative impact on our margins and profitability. In addition, if we are unable to compete successfully, even following price reductions or value enhancements, we may not be able to attract new customers, or retain existing customers. Failure to control customer churn may adversely affect our financial performance. The successful implementation of our business plan depends upon controlling customer churn. Customer churn is a measure of customers who stop using our services. Customer churn could increase as a result of: · billing errors and/or general reduction in the quality of our customer service as a result of the integration of billing systems and customer databases; · customers moving to areas where we cannot offer our digital television, or DTV, services; · interruptions to the delivery of services to customers over our network and poor fault management; · stricter customer credit policies as a result of the alignment of the historical policies of NTL and Telewest; · the availability of competing services, such as the digital satellite services offered by BSkyB, the free-to-air digital television services offered by Freeview and the telephone, broadband and dial-up internet services offered by BT, BSkyB, Carphone Warehouse (TalkTalk) , Orange, Tiscali, Pipex and other third parties, some of which may, from time to time, be less expensive or technologically superior to those offered by us or offer content that we do not offer; and · the potential loss of customers due to their required migration from our analog television, or ATV, services to our more expensive DTV services when we stop transmitting our ATV signal. An increase in customer churn can lead to slower customer growth, increased costs and a reduction in revenue. 29 The sectors in which we compete are subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, and the effect of technological changes on our businesses cannot be predicted. The internet, television, fixed line telephone and mobile telephone services sectors are characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. The effect of future technological changes on our business cannot be predicted. It is possible that products or other technological breakthroughs, such as VoIP (over fixed and mobile technologies), mobile instant messaging, wireless fidelity, or WiFi, WiMax (i.e., the extension of local WiFi networks across greater distances) or internet protocol television, may result in our core offerings becoming less competitive and render our existing products and services obsolete. We may not be able to develop new products and services at the same rate as competitors or keep up with trends in the technology market as well as our competitors. The cost of implementing emerging and future technologies could be significant, and our ability to fund that implementation may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing. We are licensed to use the Virgin name and logo but do not own it. In February 2007, we rebranded certain areas of our business as Virgin Media and renamed our corporate parent Virgin Media Inc. under a 30 year license agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited to use the Virgin name and logo. The use of the Virgin Media name and brand carries various risks, including the following: · we will be substantially reliant on the general goodwill of consumers towards the Virgin brand. Consequently, adverse publicity in relation to the Virgin Group or its principals, particularly Sir Richard Branson, who is closely associated with the brand, or in relation to another Virgin name licensee, could have a material adverse effect on our business; · the license agreement has a 30-year term, and we are obligated to pay a termination payment if the license is terminated early under certain circumstances; and · we are required to meet certain performance obligations under the license agreement, and a failure to meet those obligations could lead to a termination of the license. If we lose the right to use the Virgin brand, we would need to rebrand those areas of our business that have been rebranded, which could result in increased expenditures and increased customer churn. If we do not maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner, we could lose customers. Maintaining an uninterrupted and high-quality service over our network infrastructure is critical to our ability to attract and retain customers. Providing a competitive service level will depend in part on our ability to maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner. The maintenance and upgrade of our networks will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: · modify network infrastructure for new products and services; · install and maintain cable and equipment; and · finance maintenance and upgrades. Financial covenants in our senior credit facility effectively limit our level of capital expenditures by stipulating minimum levels of net cash generation. If this affects our ability to replace network assets at the end of their useful lives or if there is any reduction in our ability to perform necessary maintenance on network assets, our networks may have an increased failure rate, which is likely to lead to increased customer churn. 30 A failure in our critical systems could significantly disrupt our operations, which could reduce our customer base and result in lost revenues. Our business is dependent on many sophisticated critical systems that support all of the various aspects of our cable network operations. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, malicious human acts, theft, natural disasters, fire, power loss, war or other catastrophes or any other threat to business continuity. Moreover, our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. We do not currently have a formal company-wide disaster recovery plan. Unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause failures in our information technology systems, including systems that are critical for timely and accurate customer billing, or our customer service centers or interrupt the transmission of signals over our cable network. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide service to our customers, prevent us from billing and collecting revenue due to us, or otherwise meet our business obligations in a timely manner, would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and net revenue. Improvements to our revenue collection processes may not be successful or may not yield enhanced revenue collection. Inefficient collection could result in an increase in bad debt. Our inability to obtain popular programming, or to obtain it at a reasonable cost, could potentially materially adversely affect the number of customers or reduce margins. For the provision of television programs and channels distributed via our cable network, we enter into agreements with program providers, such as public and commercial broadcasters, or providers of pay or on demand television. We have historically obtained a significant amount of our premium programming and some of our basic programming and pay-per-view sporting events from BSkyB, one of our main competitors in the television services business. BSkyB is a leading supplier of programming to pay television platforms in the U.K. and is the exclusive supplier of some programming, including its Sky Sports channels and Sky Movie channels, which are the most popular premium subscription film channels available in the U.K. We buy BSkyB wholesale premium content on the basis of BSkyB’s rate card terms and pricing, which can be changed on 30 days’ notice, and not under a contract. Our agreement with BSkyB to purchase its basic channels expired on February 28, 2007. As of the date of this annual report, no new agreement has been reached between the parties. We may not be able to reach an agreement for BSkyB’s basic channels on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition to providing programming to us, BSkyB competes with us by offering its programming directly to its digital satellite customers. As a result of BSkyB’s ownership of this content, it is able to charge us a price for its content that is challenging for us to compete with and still maintain a profit margin on the sale of that premium programming. BSkyB also offers content (such as high definition and, interactive content) exclusively to its digital satellite customers and not to us. In addition to BSkyB, our significant programming suppliers include the BBC, ITV plc, Channel 4, Viacom Inc., HBO, Discovery Communications Inc. and Turner, a division of Time Warner Inc. Our dependence on these suppliers for television programming could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide attractive programming at a reasonable cost. In addition, the loss of programs could negatively affect the quality and variety of the programming delivered to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and increase customer churn. Revenue from our content segment is highly dependent on subscriber fees and the television advertising market. Our content segment owns pay channels through Virgin Media TV and our joint ventures with the BBC. Our content segment derives revenue from subscriber fees and advertising revenue. BSkyB, our main competitor, is our largest customer for our programming and has recently used its dominant position in pay television to reduce substantially the fees it pays for our channels. As we are dependent upon carriage 31 of our programming in order to attract advertising revenue, BSkyB has considerable power to renegotiate the fees that we charge for our programs. In addition, the TV advertising market has faced steady declines over the last few years. Our failure to generate sufficient subscriber fees or advertising revenue will cause our content segment revenue and cash flow to decline. We depend on equipment and service suppliers that may discontinue their products or seek to charge us prices that are not competitive, either of which may adversely affect our business and profitability. We have important relationships with several suppliers of hardware, software and services that we use to operate our network and systems and outsource various customer services. In many cases, we have made substantial investments in the equipment or software of a particular supplier, making it difficult for us in the short-term to change supply and maintenance relationships in the event that our initial supplier refuses to offer us favorable prices or ceases to produce equipment or provide the support that our network and systems require. If equipment or service suppliers were to discontinue their products or seek to charge us prices that are not competitive, our business and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we rely upon outside contractors to install our equipment in customers’ homes. Delays caused by these contractors, or quality issues concerning these contractors, could cause our customers to become dissatisfied and could produce additional churn or discourage potential new customers. The integration of our billing systems may have an adverse effect on our customer service, customer acquisitions, customer churn rate and operating costs. As a result of our growth through acquisitions, we inherited numerous billing and customer service systems. We are in the process of migrating all of our consumer cable and business customers to one central billing system. If we are not successful with this process, we might not be able to achieve the expected cost savings associated with the new system. It is possible that billing errors and other customer service disruptions could occur during further integration processes, potentially resulting in increased customer churn or adverse effects on customer service, customer acquisitions, collections, and the costs of maintaining our billing systems going forward. Regulation of the markets in which we provide our services has been changing rapidly; unpredictable changes in U.K. and EU regulations affecting the conduct of our business, including price regulations, may have an adverse impact on our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. Our principal business activities have historically been regulated and supervised by various governmental bodies in the U.K. and by the regulatory initiatives of the European Commission. Regulatory changes have recently occurred, and may in the future occur, at the U.K. or EU level with respect to licensing requirements, price regulation, environmental regulation, accounting practices, interconnection arrangements, mobile termination rates, roaming regulation, number portability, carrier pre-selection, the ability to provide digital services, ownership of media companies, programming, local loop unbundling, data protection, the provision of open access by U.K. cable operators to other telecommunications operators, the adoption of uniform digital technology standards or the bundling of services. Regulatory changes relating to our activities and those of our competitors, such as changes relating to third party access to cable networks, the costs of interconnection with other networks or the prices of competing products and services, could adversely affect our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control costs. We are subject to tax in more than one tax jurisdiction and our structure poses various tax risks. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and the U.K. Our effective tax rate and tax liability will be affected by a number of factors in addition to our operating results, including the amount of taxable 32 income in particular jurisdictions, the tax rates in those jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions, the manner in which and extent to which we transfer funds to and repatriate funds from our subsidiaries, accounting standards and changes in accounting standards, and future changes in the law. Because we operate in more than one tax jurisdiction and may therefore incur losses in one jurisdiction that cannot be offset against income earned in a different jurisdiction, we may pay income taxes in one jurisdiction for a particular period even though on an overall basis we incur a net loss for that period. We have a U.S. holding company structure in which substantially all of our operations are in U.K. subsidiaries that are owned by one or more members of a U.S. holding company group. As a result, although we do not expect to have current U.K. tax liabilities on our operating earnings for at least the medium term, our operations may give rise to U.S. tax on “Subpart F” income generated by our U.K. subsidiaries, or on repatriations of cash from our U.K. operating subsidiaries to the U.S. holding company group. While we believe that we have substantial U.S. tax basis in some of our U.K. subsidiaries which may be available to avoid or reduce U.S. tax on repatriation of an equivalent amount of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will not seek to challenge the amount of that tax basis or that we will be able to utilize such basis under applicable tax law. As a result, although in accordance with applicable law we will seek to minimize our U.S. tax liability as well as our overall worldwide tax liability, there can be no assurance that we will not incur U.S. tax liabilities with respect to repatriation of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries to the United States. The amount of the tax liability, if any, would depend upon a multitude of factors, including the amount of cash actually repatriated. There is no assurance that new products we may introduce will achieve full functionality or market acceptance. Our long-range plan includes IPTV and we cannot guarantee that this new product, or any other new products that we may develop in the future, will perform as expected when first introduced in the market. Should these new products and services fail to perform as expected or should they fail to gain market acceptance, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Virgin Mobile relies on T-Mobile’s network to carry its communications traffic. Virgin Mobile relies on its long-term agreement with T-Mobile for voice, non-voice and other telecommunications services we provide our mobile customers, as well as for certain ancillary services such as pre-pay account management. If the agreement with T-Mobile is terminated, or if T-Mobile fails to deploy and maintain its network, or if T-Mobile fails to provide the services as required under our agreement with them, or if this were required and we are unable to find a replacement network operator on a timely and commercial basis, if at all, we could be prevented from carrying on our mobile business or, if we found a replacement operator, we might be unable to carry on our mobile business only on less favorable terms or provide less desirable services. Additionally any migration of all or some of our customer base to a new operator would be in part dependent on T-Mobile and could entail potential technical or commercial risk. T-Mobile is also a customer of our business division. Any disagreements between T-Mobile and Virgin Mobile may affect our other relationships with T-Mobile. We rely on third parties to distribute our Virgin Mobile products and procure customers for our services. Our ability to distribute Virgin Mobile products and services depends, to a large extent, on securing and maintaining a number of third party distributors who sell our branded handsets and service packs, including Carphone Warehouse and prepay vouchers. These distributors also procure customers for our competitors and, in come cases, themselves as well. In particular, Carphone Warehouse also sells its own broadband and telephone services. They may also receive incentives to encourage potential customers to subscribe to our competitors’ services rather than our own. They may at their discretion decide to cease to distribute our products and services. 33 Pursuant to an agreement with Virgin Retail Limited, we are entitled to occupy a dedicated space in which to advertise and promote our products and services in specified Virgin Megastores, including future store openings. We have no control over the number of stores that may be opened or closed in the future. In addition, any of our distribution partners may from time to time close retail locations or otherwise reduce the scale of their businesses. If any of our distribution partners were to close some or all of their operations, or we fail to maintain these key distribution relationships, our revenue may decline. In addition, we plan on opening our own retail outlets in the next few years to increase the sales of our products and services. Our stores may not perform successfully. We depend on the ability to attract and retain key personnel without whom we may not be able to manage our business lines effectively. We operate in a number of rapidly changing technologically advanced markets that will continue to challenge our senior management. There is significant competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, especially individuals with experience in the cable sector. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by our senior management would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business plan. Our future success is likely to depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Certain of our significant stockholders could have an influence over our business and affairs. Certain persons or entities are our significant stockholders. Based on SEC filings to date, the Virgin Group beneficially owns 10.5% of our issued and outstanding common stock; in addition, Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC beneficially owns 9.2%, Ameriprise Financial Inc. beneficially owns 8.9%, and Mr. William R. Huff beneficially owns 5.7%, of our issued and outstanding common stock. Each of these significant stockholders could have an influence over the business and affairs of the company. On April 3, 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited which provides for us to use the Virgin name and logo in our consumer and content businesses. In connection with this agreement, Virgin Enterprises Limited had the right to propose a candidate to our Nominating Subcommittee to fill a single new seat on our board. Virgin Enterprises Limited nominated Mr. Gordon McCallum, Group Strategy Director of Virgin Enterprises Limited, and he was appointed to our board on September 11, 2006. As a result of Mr. McCallum’s relationship with Virgin Enterprises Limited, if conflicts between the interests of Virgin Enterprises Limited and the interests of our other stockholders should arise, this director may not be disinterested. Mr. Huff is a director of Virgin Media Inc. and is the president of the managing member of W.R. Huff Asset Management Co., L.L.C. As a result of his relationship with W.R. Huff Asset Management Co., L.L.C., if conflicts between the interests of W.R. Huff Asset Management Co., L.L.C. and the interests of our other stockholders should arise, this director may not be disinterested. Disruptions in Virgin Media TV’s or sit-up’s satellite transmissions could materially adversely affect their respective operations. Virgin Media TV and sit-up currently broadcast their digital programming content with leased satellite transponders, the operations of which are beyond the control of Virgin Media TV and sit-up. Disruption to one of these satellites would result in disruption to Virgin Media TV’s or sit-up’s programming and, depending upon the nature of that disruption, could result in a loss of revenues, a loss of customers and/or adverse publicity. In addition the satellite transponders may fail before the expiration of Virgin Media TV’s and sit-up’s contractual right to utilize them, which may result in additional costs as alternative arrangements are made for satellite transmission. 34 Unauthorized access to our networks could result in a loss of revenue. We rely on the integrity of our networks to ensure that our services are provided only to identifiable paying customers. The development of new technology facilitating unauthorized access to our network could result in a loss of revenue, and any failure to respond to security breaches could raise concerns under our agreements with content providers. We continue to work on minimizing unauthorized access to our networks. We do not insure the underground portion of our cable network and various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. We obtain insurance of the type and in the amounts that we believe are customary for similar companies. Consistent with this practice, we do not insure the underground portion of our cable network or various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. Almost all our cable network is constructed underground. As a result, any catastrophe that affects our underground cable network or our pavement-based electronics could prevent us from providing services to our customers and result in substantial uninsured losses. Risks Relating to Our Recent Acquisitions We may be unable to successfully integrate operations and realize the full anticipated synergies of our recent acquisitions, which may harm the value of our securities. Our merger with Telewest and acquisition of Virgin Mobile involve the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining operations include: · the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations and facilities, including call centers; · combining product offerings and coordinating the branding and pricing of these offerings; · rationalizing each company’s internal systems and processes, including billing systems, which are different from each other; and · integrating personnel from different company cultures. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of, momentum in the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and acquisition and the integration of the companies’ operations could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in the standards, controls, product offerings, level of customer service, procedures and policies of the companies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. While we have already achieved many synergies from our recent acquisitions, we expect to continue to realize synergies by creating efficiencies in operations, capital expenditures and other areas. If we are not able to successfully sustain these savings, the anticipated benefits of the merger and acquisition may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. Although we have quantified an amount of synergies that we expect to realize, this amount is an estimate and has not been prepared in accordance with GAAP. This estimate is a forward-looking statement and is based on assumptions that may not ultimately prove to be accurate. 35 We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the merger and acquisition. We have incurred a number of costs associated with completing the merger with Telewest and acquisition of Virgin Mobile, combining the operations of the three companies and achieving desired synergies. These costs have been and will be substantial. We are in the process of executing integration plans to deliver the planned synergies. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicate costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of our businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill and long-lived intangible assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” which we refer to in this annual report as “SFAS 142,” goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). Other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. On December 31, 2006, we had goodwill and intangible assets of £3,637.0 million. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such charge could have a material effect on our reported net earnings. Risks Relating to Our Financial Indebtedness and Structure We may not be able to fund our debt service obligations through operating cash flow in the future. It is possible that we may not achieve or sustain sufficient cash flow in the future for the payment of interest or principal on our indebtedness when due. If our operating cash flow is not sufficient to meet our debt payment obligations, we may be forced to raise cash or reduce expenses by doing one or more of the following: · increasing, to the extent permitted, the amount of borrowings under new credit facilities; · restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness prior to maturity, and/or on unfavorable terms; · selling or disposing of some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; or · foregoing business opportunities, including the introduction of new products and services, acquisitions and joint ventures. We cannot be sure that any of, or a combination of, the above actions would be sufficient to fund our debt service obligations. Our current leverage is substantial, which may have an adverse effect on our available cash flow, our ability to obtain additional financing if necessary in the future, our flexibility in reacting to competitive and technological changes and our operations. We had consolidated total long-term debt of £6,159.1 million as of December 31, 2006. This high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: · a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations will have to be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on existing indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; · the ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; 36 · our flexibility in reacting to competitive technological and other changes may be limited; · the substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or adverse developments in our business; and · we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We have incurred losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We had losses from continuing operations for 2006 of £570.9 million and for 2005 of £420.5 million (both on a pro forma basis). We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Failure to achieve profitability could diminish our ability to sustain operations, meet financial covenants, obtain additional required funds and make required payments on present or future indebtedness. The restrictive covenants under our debt agreements may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that limit the discretion of our management over various business matters. For example, these covenants restrict our ability to: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · pay dividends or make other distributions, or redeem or repurchase equity interests or subordinated obligations; · make investments; · sell assets, including the capital stock of subsidiaries; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions and certain vendor financing arrangements; · create liens; · enter into agreements that restrict some of our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, transfer assets or make intercompany loans; · merge or consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and · enter into transactions with affiliates. These restrictions could materially adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. We may also incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those that will be applicable under our current indebtedness. We are a holding company dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We and a number of our subsidiaries are holding companies with no independent operations or significant assets other than investments in our subsidiaries. Each of these holding companies depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. The terms of our senior credit facility and other debt securities limit the payment of dividends, loan repayments and other distributions to or from these companies under many circumstances. Various agreements governing the debt that may be issued by our subsidiaries from time to time may restrict and, in some cases, may also prohibit the ability of these subsidiaries to move cash within their restricted group. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to further taxation. Applicable law may also limit the amounts that some of our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay as dividends or distributions on their equity interests, or even prevent such payments. 37 The inability to transfer cash among entities within their respective consolidated groups may mean that even though they may have sufficient resources to meet their obligations, they may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from one entity in their restricted group to another entity in their restricted group in order to make payments to the entity owing the obligations. We are subject to currency and interest rate risks. We are subject to currency exchange rate risks because substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are paid in U.K. pounds sterling, but we pay interest and principal obligations with respect to a portion of our indebtedness in U.S. dollars and euros. To the extent that the pound declines in value against the U.S. dollar and the euro, the effective cost of servicing our U.S. dollar and euro-denominated debt will be higher. Changes in the exchange rate result in foreign currency gains or losses. We are also subject to interest rate risks. Before taking into account the impact of current hedging arrangements, as of December 31, 2006, we would have had interest determined on a variable basis on £5,025 million, or 82%, of our long term debt. An increase in interest rates of 1% would increase unhedged gross interest expense by £50.3 million per year. To manage these foreign exchange and interest rate risks, we have entered into a number of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign currency forward rate contracts. We are required by our lenders under our senior credit facility to fix the interest rate (whether through coupon or through derivatives) on not less than two thirds of the total debt represented by our senior credit facility and high yield notes, for a period of not less than three years from March 3, 2006. Accordingly, after giving effect to these hedges, an increase in interest rates of 1% would increase our gross interest expense by £18.2 million per year. We may not have sufficient financial resources to repay our debt upon a change of control. We may, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repay our outstanding indebtedness. The company or any possible acquiror may not have available financial resources necessary to repay that indebtedness in those circumstances. If we or any possible acquiror cannot repay our outstanding indebtedness in the event of a change of control of the company (if such repayment is required), the failure to do so would constitute an event of default under the agreements under which that indebtedness was incurred and could result in a cross default under other indebtedness that does not have similar provisions. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility, as well as to trends in the telecommunications industry in general, which will continue. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of prices that will prevail in the trading markets in the future. Stock prices in the telecommunications sector have historically been highly volatile, and the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which will be beyond our control. These factors include actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flow, our earnings releases and our competitors’ earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, rumors of private equity interest in our company, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets and the market for telecommunications stocks, changes in capital markets that affect the perceived availability of capital to communications companies, governmental legislation or regulation, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general 38 economic and market conditions, like recessions. Trends in this industry are likely to have a corresponding impact on the price of our common stock. We may in the future seek to raise funds through equity offerings, which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. In the future, we may determine to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or our common stock. In any case, the result would ultimately be dilutive to our common stock by increasing the number of shares outstanding. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. We have not historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we may not be able to continue to pay dividends, and the failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. Until recently, we had not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. The terms of our existing indebtedness limit our ability to pay dividends from cash generated from operations. We may be unable to continue to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Sales of stock by stockholders in the company may decrease the price of the common stock. Based on SEC filings to date, the Virgin Group beneficially owns 10.5% of our issued and outstanding common stock; in addition, Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC beneficially owns 9.2%, Ameriprise Financial Inc. beneficially owns 8.9%, and Mr. William R. Huff beneficially owns 5.7%, of our issued and outstanding common stock. Some of these stockholders also have rights, subject to various conditions, to require the company to file one or more registration statements covering their shares, or to include their shares in registration statements that the company may file for itself or on behalf of other stockholders. Subsequent sales by any of these stockholders of a substantial amount of the company’s common stock may significantly reduce the market price of the common stock of the company. Moreover, the perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of such common stock could depress the trading price of the company’s common stock for a considerable period. Sales of the company’s common stock, and the possibility of these sales, could make it more difficult for the company to sell equity, or equity related securities, in the future at a time, and price, that it considers appropriate. Provisions of our debt agreements, our stockholder rights plan, our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and our contracts could prevent or delay a change of control of us. We may, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase substantially all of our outstanding senior notes and repay our outstanding indebtedness under our senior credit facility and other indebtedness. We or any possible acquiror may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes or repay that indebtedness in those circumstances. If we or any possible acquiror cannot repurchase those senior notes or repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities and other indebtedness in the event of a change of control of us, the failure to do so would constitute an event of default under the agreements under which that indebtedness was incurred and could result in a cross-default under other indebtedness that does not have similar provisions. The threat of this could have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices, or otherwise which they may deem to be in their best interests. Our stockholder rights plan, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our ability to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to third parties without stockholder approval may 39 have the effect, alone or in combination with each other, of preventing or making more difficult transactions involving a change of control of us. We are subject to the Delaware business combinations law that, subject to limited exceptions, prohibit some Delaware corporations from engaging in some business combinations or other transactions with any stockholder who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired that interest. The terms of certain of our existing agreements relating to changes of control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 