ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We operate in highly competitive markets which may lead to a decrease in our ARPU, increased costs, increased customer churn or a reduction in the rate of customer acquisition. The markets for broadband internet, television, telephony and business services in which we operate are highly competitive. We face significant competition from established and new competitors in each of these markets, and believe that competition will intensify as technology evolves. For example, distribution of entertainment and other information over the internet, as well as through mobile phones and other devices and services such as the proposed YouView platform, continue to increase in popularity. These technological developments are increasing the number of media choices available to subscribers. In addition, continued consolidation within the media industry may permit more competitors to offer “triple-play” bundles of digital television, fixed line telephone and broadband services, or “quad-play” bundles including mobile telephone services. Consolidation by competitors even in some of our markets, such as the Everything Everywhere joint venture between Orange and T-Mobile, can create economies of scale that we do not benefit from. Many of our competitors are part of multi-national groups, and some may have substantially greater financial resources and benefit from greater economies of scale than we do. In order to compete effectively, we may be required to reduce the prices we charge for our services or increase the value of our services without being able to recoup associated costs. In addition, some of our competitors offer services that we are unable to offer. Any increase in competitive pressures in our markets may lead to a decrease in our ARPU, increased costs, increased customer churn or a reduction in the rate of customer acquisition, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See also “Business—Competition”. The sectors in which we compete are subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, and the effect of technological changes on our businesses cannot be predicted. The broadband internet, television, telephony and business services sectors are characterized by rapid and significant changes in technology. Advances in current technologies, such as VoIP (over fixed and mobile technologies), 3D TV, mobile instant messaging (including both SMS and BBS), wireless fidelity, or WiFi, the extension of local WiFi networks across greater distances, or WiMax, LTE, internet protocol television, or the emergence of new technologies, may result in our core offerings becoming less competitive or render our existing products and services obsolete. We may not be able to develop new products and services at the same rate as our competitors (or at all) or keep up with trends in the technology market as well as our competitors (or at all) which could lead to a decrease in our ARPU, increased costs, increased customer churn or a reduction in the rate of customer acquisition, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See also “Business—Competition”. The cost of implementing emerging and new technologies could be significant, and our ability to fund that implementation may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing. Similarly, the deployment of new technologies in the spectrum frequencies in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on the existing services offered by us, with a consequential material adverse effect on our businesses. Our fixed line telephony business is in decline and not likely to improve. Demand for fixed line telephony is in decline, with the rate of decline in lines used by business nearly twice as high as that in the residential fixed telephony market. There is a trend for businesses to replace fixed line 24 Table of Contents telephony with voice-over-internet-protocol, or VoIP, telephony, while residential customers are tending to migrate from fixed line to mobile telephony. However, there is no assurance that our fixed line customers will migrate to our mobile phones and we may eventually lose our fixed line customers to other providers of mobile telephone services. Such a migration could have a material adverse effect on our ARPU, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner, we could lose customers. Maintaining an uninterrupted and high-quality service over our network infrastructure is critical to our ability to attract and retain customers, including business customers. Providing a competitive service level will depend in part on our ability to maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner. The maintenance and upgrade of our networks will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: • modify network infrastructure for new products and services, including faster broadband speeds; • install and maintain cable and equipment; and • finance maintenance and upgrades. Our covenants in our senior credit facility effectively restrict our use of cash. If these covenants affect our ability to replace network assets at the end of their useful lives or if there is any reduction in our ability to perform necessary maintenance on network assets, our networks may have an increased failure rate. This in turn could lead to increased customer churn which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A failure in our network and information systems could significantly disrupt our operations, and a disruption or failure of such networks or systems may disrupt our business. Certain network and information systems are critical to our business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as theft, computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, or other malicious activities, or power outages, gas build-up, fire, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, war or other similar events, could result in a degradation or disruption of our cable and non-cable services, excessive call volume to call centers or damage to our equipment and data. We do not have a company-wide disaster recovery plan, however, we continue to develop plans for key areas of risk in the business. For example, in 2009 we developed a business-wide continuity plan to manage significant disruptions to our business due to the threat of pandemic influenza. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to our customers, prevent us from billing and collecting revenue due to us, or that otherwise prevent us from meeting our obligations to our customers in a timely manner, would adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and revenue. These network and information systems-related events could also result in significant expenditures to repair or replace the damaged networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Further, any security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, penetration by viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems (or those of our business partners) and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data, could damage our reputation, result in legal and/or regulatory action against us, and require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. The occurrence of any such network or information system-related events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Unauthorized access to our network could result in a loss of revenue. We rely on the integrity of our technology to ensure that our services are provided only to identifiable paying customers. During the course of 2009 and 2010, we upgraded the conditional access system which we use 25 Table of Contents to encrypt pay television to our customers. However, increasingly sophisticated means of illicit piracy of television services are continually being developed, including in response to evolving technologies. Billing and revenue generation for our pay television services rely on the proper functioning of our encryption systems. While we continue to invest in measures to manage unauthorized access to our networks, any such unauthorized access to our cable television service would result in a loss of revenue, and any failure to respond to security breaches could raise concerns under our agreements with content providers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers and contractors to provide necessary hardware, software or operational support and are sometimes tied in to them in a way which could economically disadvantage us. We rely on third-party vendors to supply us with a significant amount of customer equipment, hardware, software and operational support necessary to operate our network and systems and provide our services. In many cases, we have made substantial investments in the equipment or software of a particular supplier, making it difficult for us in the short term to change supply and maintenance relationships in the event that our initial supplier is unwilling or unable to offer us competitive prices or to provide the equipment, software or support that we require. If our suppliers and contractors seek to charge us prices that are not competitive, the ties we have to them may be such that we may be paying more than we have to for products and services in the short and even medium term. We also rely upon a number of third-party contractors to construct and maintain our network and to install our equipment in customers’ homes. Quality issues or installation or service delays relating to these contractors could result in liability, reputational harm or contribute to customer dissatisfaction, which could result in additional churn or discourage potential new customers. We are also exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our suppliers, some of whom have been adversely affected by the global economic downturn. If our suppliers were to discontinue certain products, were unable to provide equipment to meet our specifications or interrupt the provision of equipment or services to us, whether as a result of bankruptcy or otherwise, our business and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Our marketing depends in significant part on the “Virgin” name and logo, but we do not own these. We do not own the “Virgin” name and logo. We use the “Virgin” name and logo in connection with our corporate activities and the activities of our consumer and business operations under a 30-year license agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited. The license agreement expires in April 2036, and we are obligated to pay a termination payment if the license is terminated early under certain circumstances. The license also requires us to meet certain customer service level requirements which may be difficult to achieve, particularly during periods of growth and change when such service levels may be adversely affected. If we fail to meet our obligations under the license agreement, this could lead to a termination of the license. If we lose the right to use the Virgin brand, we would need to rebrand the affected areas of our business, which could result in increased expenditures and increased customer churn which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The “Virgin” brand is not under our control and the activities of the Virgin Group and other licensees could have a material adverse effect on the goodwill of customers towards us as a licensee. The “Virgin” brand is integral to our corporate identity. We are substantially reliant on the general goodwill of consumers towards the Virgin brand. Consequently, adverse publicity in relation to the Virgin Group or its principals, particularly Sir Richard Branson, who is closely associated with the brand, or in relation to another Virgin name licensee, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any negative publicity 26 Table of Contents generated by or associated with the Virgin Group or any other licensee of the “Virgin” name and logo could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operating performance will depend, in part, on our ability to control customer churn. Customer churn is a measure of customers who stop using our services and controlling churn is a key element of our operational performance. Our customer churn may increase as a result of: • customers moving to areas where we cannot offer our superfast broadband and/or digital television, or DTV, services; • the availability of competing services, some of which may, from time to time, be less expensive or technologically superior to those offered by us or offer content that we do not offer; • interruptions to the delivery of services to customers over our network and poor fault management; • a general reduction in the quality of our customer service; or • a general deterioration in economic conditions that could lead to customers being unable or unwilling to pay for our services. An increase in customer churn can lead to slower customer growth and a reduction in revenue which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to obtain popular programming, or to obtain it at a reasonable cost, could potentially have a material adverse effect on the number of customers or reduce margins. For the provision of television programs and channels distributed via our cable network, we enter into agreements with program providers, such as public and commercial broadcasters, or providers of pay or on demand television. We have historically obtained a significant amount of our premium programming and some of our basic programming and pay per view sporting events from BSkyB, one of our main competitors in the television services business. BSkyB is a leading supplier of programming to pay television platforms in the U.K. and is the exclusive supplier of some programming, including its Sky Sports channels and Sky Movies channels, which are the most popular premium subscription sports and film channels, respectively, available in the U.K. Ofcom conducted an investigation into the pay TV market and, in its Pay TV Statement of March 31, 2010, imposed new license conditions on BSkyB that provide for a must offer obligation on Sky and that regulate, or set a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory, or FRND requirement for, the price and terms of supply of certain Sky’s Sports Channels. While BSkyB (and others) have appealed the fact of the imposition of the license conditions, we (and others) have appealed that the intervention did not go far enough and we are seeking to overturn it. See “Our Business—Regulatory Matters—Regulation of Television Services.” We now buy BSkyB wholesale premium content on the basis of carriage agreements entered into on June 4, 2010, which provided for the wholesale distribution of BSkyB’s basic channels, and its premium sports and movies channels, on our cable TV service. This agreement provides for security of supply of Sky premium sports and movie channels until June 30, 2013 at which time we will need to negotiate a new commercial agreement pending the decision by Ofcom. However, for standard definition, or SD, we are still exposed to BSkyB changing the ratecard terms of supply on 60 days’ notice, and to wholesale price changes for Sky Sports 1 and 2 which can occur under Ofcom’s price regulation mechanism following changes to BSkyB’s own retail prices. Also, with regards to HD, BSkyB continues to offer the Sky Sports 3 and 4 HD channels exclusively to its digital satellite customers and not to us. Moreover, the launch of Sky Atlantic exclusively to its own retail customers on the 27 Table of Contents satellite platform reflects the ongoing risk of Sky migrating attractive basic content to new channels that it is not contractually obliged to supply to us and then withholding supply or setting uneconomic terms for supply. Other significant programming suppliers include the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, UKTV, Five, Viacom Inc., ESPN, Discovery Communications Inc. and Turner, a division of Time Warner Inc. Our dependence on these suppliers for television programming could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide attractive programming at a reasonable cost. In addition, any loss of programs could negatively affect the quality and variety of the programming delivered to our customers. In addition, there is the risk that suppliers will become exclusive providers to other platforms, including BSkyB, which reduces our ability to offer the same or similar content to our customers. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and increase customer churn. We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by weakening global or domestic economic conditions, wavering consumer confidence, unemployment, tight credit and insurance markets, declines in global and domestic stock markets and other factors adversely affecting the global and domestic economy. In particular, the risks associated with certain segments of our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession. In addition, unfavorable events in the economy, including a deterioration in the credit and equity markets, could significantly affect consumer and business demand for our products, as consumers may delay purchasing decisions or reduce or reallocate their discretionary funds. Our mobile services may be affected by an economic slowdown as customers reduce their expenditures on mobile phones and usage or consider a return to lower margin prepaid rather than contract accounts. Current cable customers may elect to downgrade their packages or move to other less costly providers. New customers may opt to take out our lower end broadband and TV packages rather than more expensive ones or may opt to become customers of less costly competitors. We are also exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers, suppliers, distributors and other third parties, many of whom may be adversely affected by a general economic downturn. See also “—We rely on third-party suppliers and contractors who may let us and our customers down.” Suppliers may also be more cautious in supplying goods to us and may request additional credit enhancements or more restrictive payment terms. While the impact of an economic slowdown on our business is difficult to predict, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our cash flows. We may be unable to implement our operational restructuring plan successfully and realize the anticipated benefits, and this could negatively affect our financial performance. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we commenced the implementation of a restructuring plan aimed at driving further improvements in our operational performance and eliminating inefficiencies in order to create a fully-integrated, customer-focused organization. During the second quarter of 2010, we identified further savings through the expansion of the program and revised the estimated total costs and extended the completion date through the end of 2012.The restructuring process could cause an interruption, or loss, of momentum in the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties incurred in connection with the restructuring activity could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in our standards, controls, product offerings, level of customer service, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. The implementation of the plan will involve the incurrence of substantial operating and capital expenditures to achieve long term savings, including employee termination costs, lease and contract exit costs, purchases of fixed assets and other related expenses. Additional unanticipated costs may also be incurred. Although we expect that the elimination of costs, 28 Table of Contents as well as the realization of efficiencies and other benefits related to the implementation of the plan, will offset the restructuring-related costs over time, this net benefit expected may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We are subject to currency and interest rate risks. We are subject to currency exchange rate risks because substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are paid in U.K. pounds sterling, but we pay interest and principal obligations with respect to a portion of our indebtedness in U.S. dollars and euros. To the extent that the pound sterling declines in value against the U.S. dollar and the euro, the effective cost of servicing our U.S. dollar and euro-denominated debt will be higher. Changes in the exchange rate result in foreign currency gains or losses. We are also subject to interest rate risks. As of December 31, 2010, we had interest determined on a variable basis on £1,675 million, or 28%, of our long term debt. An increase in interest rates of 1% would increase unhedged gross interest expense by approximately £16.7 million per year. We also incur costs in U.S. dollars, euros and South African rand, in the ordinary course of our business, including for customer premise equipment and network maintenance services. Any deterioration in the value of the pound relative to the U.S. dollar, euro or the rand increases the effective cost of purchases made in these currencies as most of these exposures are not hedged. We rely on third parties to distribute mobile telephony products and procure customers for our services. Our ability to distribute our mobile telephony products and services depends, to a large extent, on securing and maintaining agreements with a number of third party distributors and increasing our retail presence. These distributors also procure customers for our competitors and, in some cases, for themselves. For example, one of our third-party distributors also sells its own broadband and telephone services. Additionally, certain distributors may also receive incentives to encourage potential customers to subscribe to our competitors’ services rather than our own. Our agreements with third-party distributors generally allow for termination of the relationship by either party, with 30 days’ prior notice. We are also exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of third-party distributors, some of whom may be adversely affected by the general economic downturn. While we are currently expanding our portfolio of Virgin Media branded retail outlets, our stores may not perform successfully. Accordingly, if any of our distribution partners were to reduce or cease their operations, due to financial difficulties or otherwise, or if we fail to maintain our key distribution relationships, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. There is no assurance that new products we may introduce will achieve full functionality or market acceptance. Our strategy requires that we roll-out new products and services, such as the continued roll out of broadband download speeds of up to 100 Mb across parts of our network, our current trials of broadband download speeds of up to 200 Mb and upstream speeds of up to 10 Mb in limited geographic areas and our roll out in 2011 of a next generation set-top box and related services with TiVo. We are also increasing the amount of content available via our mobile telephony platform. There is no assurance that any new product or service that we may develop will perform as expected or gain market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to tax in more than one tax jurisdiction and our structure poses various tax risks. We are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions, in particular, the U.S. and the U.K. Our effective tax rate and tax liability will be affected by a number of factors in addition to our operating results, including the amount of taxable income in particular jurisdictions, the tax rates in those jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions, the manner in which and extent to which we transfer funds to and repatriate funds from our subsidiaries, 29 Table of Contents accounting standards and changes in accounting standards, and future changes in the law. As we operate in more than one tax jurisdiction and may therefore incur losses in one jurisdiction that cannot be offset against income earned in a different jurisdiction, we may pay income taxes in one jurisdiction for a particular period even though on an overall basis we incur a net loss for that period. We have a U.S. holding company structure in which substantially all of our operations are conducted in U.K. subsidiaries that are owned by one or more members of a U.S. holding company group. As a result, although we do not expect to have current U.K. tax liabilities on our operating earnings for at least the medium term, our operations may give rise to U.S. tax on “Subpart F” income generated by our U.K. subsidiaries, or on repatriations of cash from our U.K. operating subsidiaries to the U.S. holding company group. While we believe that we have substantial U.S. tax basis in some of our U.K. subsidiaries which may be available to avoid or reduce U.S. tax on repatriation of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will not seek to challenge the amount of that tax basis or that we will be able to utilize such basis under applicable tax law. As a result, although in accordance with applicable law we will seek to minimize our U.S. tax liability as well as our overall worldwide tax liability, we may incur U.S. tax liabilities with respect to repatriation of cash from our U.K. subsidiaries to the United States. The amount of the tax liability, if any, would depend upon a multitude of factors, including the amount of cash actually repatriated. We also pay value added tax, or VAT, on our revenue generating activities in the U.K. From time to time, the U.K. tax authorities review the basis upon which we assess our VAT liability with respect to our activities. We are currently engaged in a dispute with the tax authorities over two of these reviews. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations—Consolidated Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009—Contingent Losses.” Acquisitions and other strategic transactions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. From time to time we have made acquisitions, dispositions and have entered into other strategic transactions. In connection with such transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits, have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and suppliers, incur significant indebtedness, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. Virgin Mobile relies on Everything Everywhere’s network to carry its communications traffic. Virgin Mobile relies on its agreement with Everything Everywhere for voice, non-voice and other telecommunications services we provide to our mobile customers, as well as for certain ancillary services such as pre-pay account management. If the agreement with Everything Everywhere is terminated, or if Everything Everywhere fails to deploy and maintain its network, or if Everything Everywhere fails to provide the services as required under our agreement with them, and we are unable to find a replacement network operator on a timely and commercial basis, if at all, we could be prevented from carrying on our mobile business or, if we found a replacement operator, we may be able to carry on our mobile business only on less favorable terms or provide less desirable services. Additionally, any migration of all or some of our customer base to a new operator would be in part dependent on Everything Everywhere and could entail potential technical or commercial risk. Everything Everywhere is also a customer of our business division. Any disagreements between Everything Everywhere and Virgin Mobile could adversely affect our other relationships with Everything Everywhere which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. 30 Table of Contents We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel without whom we may not be able to manage our business lines effectively. We operate in a number of rapidly changing technologically advanced markets that will continue to challenge our business. There is significant competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, especially individuals with experience in the cable sector. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by our senior management would be difficult to replace and that the loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business plan. Our future success is likely to depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We do not insure the underground portion of our cable network and various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. We obtain insurance of the type and in the amounts that we believe are customary for similar companies. Consistent with this practice, we do not insure the underground portion of our cable network or various pavement-based electronics associated with our cable network. Almost all our cable network is constructed underground. As a result, any catastrophe that affects our underground cable network or our pavement-based electronics could prevent us from providing services to our customers and result in substantial uninsured losses. We have suffered losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill and long-lived intangible assets and could do so again in the future. In accordance with the Intangibles—Goodwill and Other Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification, or FASB ASC, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). In addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, in accordance with the Property, Plant and Equipment Topic of the FASB ASC. On December 31, 2010, we had goodwill and intangible assets of £2,135.9 million. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment charge being required. Any downward revision in the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets has a material effect on our reported net income. We have limited capacity on our cable platform. Our digital television, analog television, broadband internet and VOD services are transmitted through our core and access networks, which have limited capacity. We have plans in place to add additional capacity to our core and access networks. Until these plans are implemented, we are limited in the number of channels that can be transmitted as part of our digital television service and in our carriage of HD channels. Our current capacity limitations may affect our ability to carry new channels as they are developed. Moreover, our digital television offering could become less competitive, which could result in an increase in customer churn and a decrease in revenue. We may be adversely affected by complaints, litigation and publicity. We may be adversely affected by complaints and litigation, including from customers, competitors or regulatory authorities, as well as any adverse publicity that we may attract. Any litigation, complaints or adverse publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or operating results. 31 Table of Contents Our operations, facilities, products and employees are subject to a wide range of health and safety regulations and concerns. We are subject to certain environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that affect our operations, facilities and products. We believe that it we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations related to our operations, facilities, products, employees and business activities and have adequate measures in place to ensure that our affiliates, vendors and contractors comply with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. However, in spite of these measures, there is a risk that we may have to incur expenditures to cover environmental and health liabilities to maintain compliance with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or to undertake any necessary remediation. Digital video recorders such as the TiVo enabled box could be the subject of future regulation relating to copyright law or evolving industry standards and practices that could adversely impact our business. DVRs, and in particular the TiVo set-top box with associated software (including middleware), represent a part of our strategy to bring about convergence of our various platforms. In the future, copyright statutes or case law could be changed to adversely impact our business by restricting the ability of consumers to temporally or spatially shift copyrighted materials for their own personal use. Our business could be harmed as a result. In addition, if there is an attempt in the future to require companies in the digital video recorder industry to obtain copyright or other licenses, this could result in costs which are passed along to us and could delay widespread consumer acceptance of our TiVo offering, restrict our use of some television content, increase our costs, and adversely affect our business. We are subject to significant regulation and changes in U.K. and EU laws, regulations or governmental policy affecting the conduct of our business may have a material adverse effect on our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. Our principal business activities are regulated and supervised by Ofcom and the U.K. Office of Fair Trading, among other regulators. Regulatory change is an ongoing process in the communications sector at both the U.K. and the EU level. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy affecting our activities and those of our competitors could significantly influence how we operate our business and introduce new products and services. For example, regulatory changes relating to our activities and those of our competitors, such as changes relating to third party access to cable networks, the costs of interconnection with other networks or the prices of competing products and services, or any change in policy allowing more favorable conditions for other operators, could adversely affect our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs. In particular following the transposition of recent amendments to the European directives into UK law, Ofcom may attempt to use the non-significant market power, or non-SMP, access provisions to require us to make available access to our network to third parties. Our ability to introduce new products and services may also be affected if we cannot predict how existing or future laws, regulations or policies would apply to such products or services. In addition, our business and the industry in which we operate are subject to investigation by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Any such action could harm our reputation and result in increased costs to the business. Concerns about health risks associated with wireless equipment may reduce the demand for our services. Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. Class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against numerous wireless carriers, seeking not only damages but also remedies that could increase our cost of doing business. We cannot be sure of the outcome of those cases or that our business and financial condition will not be adversely affected by litigation of this nature or public perception about health risks. The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduction in subscribers, reduced network usage per 32 Table of Contents subscriber or reduced financing available to the mobile communications industry. Further research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot be sure that additional studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Risks Relating to Our Financial Indebtedness and Structure We have substantial indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our available cash flow, our ability to obtain additional financing if necessary in the future, our flexibility in reacting to competitive and technological changes and our operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. Our consolidated total long term debt, net of £222 million current portion, was £5,798 million as of December 31, 2010. Our ability to pay principal and interest on or to refinance the outstanding indebtedness depends upon our operating performance, which will be affected by, among other things, general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Moreover, we may not be able to refinance or redeem such debt on commercially reasonable terms, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will have to be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on existing indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the competitive environment and the industry in which we operate, and to technological and other changes may be limited; • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; • our substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or adverse developments in our business; and • we are exposed to risks inherent in interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these or other consequences or events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, which could adversely affect our business and operations. We may not be able to fund our debt service obligations in the future. We have significant principal payments due under our senior credit facility that could require a partial or comprehensive refinancing of our remaining senior credit facility, and the possible use of other debt instruments. Our ability to implement such a refinancing successfully would be significantly dependent on stable debt capital markets. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain sufficient cash flow in the future for the payment of principal or interest on our indebtedness when due. Consequently, we may be forced to raise cash or reduce expenses by doing one or more of the following: • raising additional debt; • restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness prior to maturity, and/or on unfavorable terms; • selling or disposing of some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms; • issuing equity or equity-related instruments that will dilute the equity ownership interest of existing stockholders; or 33 Table of Contents • foregoing business opportunities, including the introduction of new products and services, acquisitions and joint ventures. We cannot be sure that any of, or a combination of, the above actions would be sufficient to fund our debt service obligations, particularly in times of turbulent capital markets. The covenants under our debt agreements place certain limitations on our ability to finance future operations and how we manage our business. The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain financial maintenance tests and restrictive covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional debt and limit the discretion of our management over various business matters. For example, the financial maintenance tests include liquidity, coverage and leverage ratios, and the restrictive covenants impact our ability to: • pay dividends or make other distributions, or redeem or repurchase equity interests or subordinated obligations; • make investments; • sell assets, including the capital stock of subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions and certain vendor financing arrangements; • create liens; • enter into agreements that restrict some of our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, transfer assets or make intercompany loans; • merge or consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. We are also required to, among other things, comply with certain financial ratios. Although these limitations are subject to significant exceptions and qualifications, if we breach any of these covenants, or are unable to comply with the required financial ratios, we may be in default under our debt instruments. A significant portion of our indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due thereunder. These restrictions could also materially adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. We may also incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable under our current indebtedness. We are a holding company dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Virgin Media Inc. and a number of its subsidiaries are holding companies with no independent operations or significant assets other than investments in their subsidiaries. Each of these holding companies depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. The terms of our senior credit facility and other indebtedness limit the payment of dividends, loan repayments and other distributions to or from these companies under many circumstances. Various agreements governing our debt may restrict and, in some cases, may also prohibit the ability of these subsidiaries to move cash within their restricted group. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to further taxation. 34 Table of Contents Applicable law may also limit the amounts that some of our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay as dividends or distributions on their equity interests, or even prevent such payments. The inability to transfer cash among entities within their respective consolidated groups may mean that even though the entities, in aggregate, may have sufficient resources to meet their obligations, they may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from one entity in their restricted group to another entity in their restricted group in order to make payments to the entity owing the obligations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Conversion of our convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any issuance by us of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes will dilute the equity ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares of our common stock upon prior conversion of our convertible senior notes. Because the trading price of our common stock exceeded 120% of the conversion price of the convertible notes for 20 out of the last 30 trading days of 2010, holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their convertible notes during the first quarter of 2011 and in future quarters if this condition is met. If conversions of this nature occur, we may deliver cash, common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock, at our election, to satisfy our obligations. If we elect to issue common stock, the equity ownership interest of existing shareholders would be diluted. Additionally, our convertible senior notes include anti-dilution and “make-whole” premium provisions that, if triggered, would result in an increase in the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible senior notes. Conversion of the convertible senior notes in circumstances where these provisions have operated could have a significantly greater dilutive effect. Sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the convertible senior notes may encourage short selling by market participants. We may in the future seek to raise funds through equity offerings, which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. In the future, we may determine to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or our common stock. In any case, the result would ultimately be dilutive to our common stock by increasing the number of shares outstanding. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. We may not continue to pay dividends, and the failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price. Until June 2006, we had not paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We could determine not to continue to pay dividends on our common stock at the same level, or at all. In addition, the terms of our existing indebtedness limit the amount of dividends we can pay to stockholders from cash generated from operations if our debt leverage ratio is above certain levels. The trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets, and stock prices of highly levered companies, in particular, have been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to additional factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and market conditions, actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flow, our competitors’ earnings releases, announcements of technological innovations, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, 35 Table of Contents trading volume, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, market conditions in the industry and the general state of the securities markets and the market for telecommunications stocks, governmental legislation or regulation and rumors of private equity interest in our Company. Sales of stock by stockholders in the Company may decrease the price of the common stock. A number of our stockholders have large holdings of our stock. Sales by any stockholders of a substantial amount of the Company’s common stock may significantly reduce the market price of the common stock of the Company. Moreover, a perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of such common stock could depress the trading price of the Company’s common stock for a considerable period. Sales of the Company’s common stock, and the possibility of these sales, could make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity, or equity related securities, in the future at a time, and price, that it considers appropriate. Provisions of our debt agreements, our stockholder rights plan, our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and our contracts could prevent or delay a change of control of us. We may, under some circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase substantially all of our outstanding senior notes and convertible senior notes, and repay our outstanding indebtedness under our senior credit facility and other indebtedness. We or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes or repay that indebtedness in those circumstances. If we or any possible acquirer cannot repurchase those notes or repay our indebtedness under our senior credit facility and other indebtedness in the event of a change of control of us, the failure to do so would constitute an event of default under the agreements under which that indebtedness was incurred and could result in a cross-default under other indebtedness that does not have similar provisions. The threat of this could have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders would receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices, or otherwise which they may deem to be in their best interests. Our stockholder rights plan, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our ability to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to third parties without stockholder approval may have the effect, alone or in combination with each other, of preventing or making more difficult transactions involving a change of control of us. We are subject to the Delaware business combinations law that, subject to limited exceptions, prohibits some Delaware corporations from engaging in some business combinations or other transactions with any stockholder who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired that interest. The terms of certain of our existing agreements relating to changes of control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of us. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 