Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our current business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we do not generate a sufficient amount of cash from operations, which depends on many factors beyond our control, we may not be able to satisfy our debt service or other liquidity requirements. As of June 30, 2012, we had an aggregate of approximately $1.09 billion in outstanding indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and to satisfy our working capital and other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful or may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and 21 Table of Contents resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. If we are unable to make the required payments on our debt obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our indebtedness which could result in an acceleration of our repayment obligations. Any such default, or any attempt to alter our business plans and operations to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in applicable laws and regulations governing our business may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations in each of the countries in which we operate which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand our business. These regulations govern or affect, among other things: Ÿ lending and collection practices, such as truth in lending and short-term and installment lending; Ÿ interest rates and usury; Ÿ loan amount and fee limitations; Ÿ check cashing fees; Ÿ licensing and posting of fees; Ÿ currency reporting; Ÿ privacy of personal consumer information; Ÿ prompt remittance of proceeds for the sale of money orders; and Ÿ the location of our stores through various rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations and requirements for special use permits. As we develop and introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations. Future legislation or regulations may restrict our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations and may have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Governments at the national and local levels may seek to impose new licensing requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. We and other participants in our industry are currently, and may in the future be, subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings which could generate adverse publicity or cause us to incur substantial expenditures or modify the way we conduct our business. Changes in laws or regulations, or our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Our consumer lending products in particular are subject to regulations in each of the markets in which we operate that significantly impact the manner in which we conduct our business. In Canada, the Canadian Parliament amended the federal usury law in 2007 to permit each province to assume jurisdiction over and the development of laws and regulations regarding our industry. To date, Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario and Saskatchewan have passed legislation regulating unsecured short-term consumer lenders and each has, or is in the process of adopting, regulations and rates consistent with those laws. In general, these regulations require lenders to be licensed, set maximum fees and regulate collection practices. There can be no assurance that these regulations will not have a detrimental effect on our unsecured short-term lending business in Canada in the future. In the United Kingdom, our consumer lending activities must be undertaken with reference to the Irresponsible Lending Guidance, or the ILG, of the Office of Fair Trading, which we refer to as the OFT. The ILG outlines the overarching principles of consumer protection and fair business practice which apply to all regulated consumer credit lending. The OFT has also issued Debt Collection Guidance, which was updated in October 2011 but is under further review. The Debt Collection Guidance could restrict the number of times and the amounts that we are allowed to debit a customer’s account. In addition, in February 2012, the OFT announced that it launched an extensive review of the short-term lending sector in the United Kingdom to assess the sector’s compliance with the Consumer Credit Act of 1974, the ILG and other relevant guidance and legal obligations. As 22 Table of Contents part of this review, we are among 50 companies offering unsecured short-term consumer loans for which the OFT has indicated that it will conduct on-site inspections that could be used to assess fitness to hold a consumer credit license and could result in formal enforcement action where appropriate. The OFT commenced its onsite inspection of our operations in late fiscal 2012. Furthermore, we have provided the OFT with response to comprehensive survey request with respect to several of our businesses in the United Kingdom to assess compliance with applicable regulations and guidance. As we continue to evaluate the regulatory developments in the United Kingdom, including the OFT’s guidance, we may consider making changes to, or may be required to make changes to, our lending and collection practices. If we are required, or decide it is prudent, to make changes to our lending or collection practices in the United Kingdom based on OFT guidance or as a result of their review of the short-term lending sector, such changes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Short-term consumer loans have come under heightened regulatory scrutiny in the United States in recent years resulting in increasingly restrictive regulations and legislation at the state levels that makes offering such loans less profitable or attractive to us. Legislative or regulatory activities may, among other things, limit the amount of total allowable fees charged in connection with unsecured short-term consumer loans, limit the number of times an unsecured short-term consumer loan may be rolled over by a customer, limit the maximum advance amount, set minimum and/or maximum loan durations and may require borrowers of certain unsecured short-term loan products to be listed on a database. Additionally, the U.S. Congress continues to receive significant pressure from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups to adopt such legislation at the federal level. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted, which, among other things, created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which we refer to as the CFPB. The CFPB has regulatory jurisdiction over non-depository financial companies, such as us. In January 2012, the CFPB published a field guide for its examiners to use to ensure that short-term lenders are following federal consumer financial laws in their U.S. operations, as part of the CFPB’s payday lending supervision program. Under this program, the CFPB plans to gather information from short-term lenders to evaluate their policies and procedures, assess whether lenders are in compliance with federal consumer financial laws, and identify risks to consumers throughout the lending process. The program’s implementation will be based on the CFPB’s assessment of consumer risk, including volume of business and state regulatory oversight. The CFPB commenced onsite inspections of our operations in the United States in late fiscal 2012. However, any action by the CFPB with respect to short-term consumer loans could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In Finland, our consumer lending operations are regulated pursuant to the Finnish Consumer Protection Law under the oversight of the Ministry of Justice. In 2011, following a parliamentary change and the submission to the Finnish Parliament of proposed legislation seeking to impose more stringent rules for the micro-lending market, including interest rate caps or other limitations on the availability of micro-loans online, the Ministry of Justice nominated a working group to review the existing regulatory framework in Finland. Our Finland-based Risicum subsidiary is a member of the Finnish Association for Micro Loans, which presented information to the Ministry of Justice working group. In its final report issued in April 2012, the working group suggested two alternatives for regulating loans in Finland with principal amounts under EUR 1,000, each of which included caps on interest and fees that lenders would be permitted to charge in connection with a loan. The Ministry of Justice concluded a consultation period in May 2012, during which several potential modifications to the working group’s proposals were submitted. The working group’s final recommendations will be reviewed by the Ministry of Justice and could be considered by the Finnish Parliament in the next several months. We cannot predict what the outcome of this legislative process will be, but if we are required to make changes to our current lending operations in Finland as a result of the potential imposition of interest rate and fee restrictions such as those proposed by the working group, such changes could have a material adverse impact on the current Finnish online lending business model. The modification of existing laws or regulations in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate or in which we contemplate new operations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations restricting or imposing more stringent requirements, on our consumer lending or check cashing activities in particular, could increase our operating expenses, significantly limit our business activities in the affected markets limit our expansion opportunities and/or could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We have engaged, and may engage in the future, in acquisitions or investments which present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any of these transactions. We have historically expanded our business through strategic acquisitions, and a key component of our growth strategy is to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities. We may not, however, be able to achieve the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or investment due to a number of factors. The success of our acquisitions is dependent, in part, upon our effectively integrating the management, operations and technology of acquired businesses into our existing management, operations and technology platforms, of which there can be no assurance, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions completed in a short period of time. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our organization could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in a significant diversion of our management’s time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. The consideration paid for an acquisition or investment may also affect our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash or to obtain debt or equity financing. To the extent that we issue shares of our capital stock or other rights to purchase shares of our capital stock as consideration for an acquisition or in connection with the financing of an acquisition, including options or other rights, our existing stockholders may be diluted, and our earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. Acquisitions may require us to incur additional indebtedness to finance our working capital and may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Adverse economic conditions may significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and access to liquidity. The ongoing global economic uncertainties may adversely affect our business in several ways. For example, continued high levels of unemployment in the markets in which we operate may reduce the number of customers who qualify for our products and services, which in turn may reduce our revenues. Similarly, reduced consumer confidence and spending may decrease the demand for our products. Also, we are unable to predict how the widespread loss of jobs, housing foreclosures, and general economic uncertainty may affect our loss experience. If internal funds are not available from our operations and after utilizing our excess cash, we may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced since 2008, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving loans. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our ability to refinance our outstanding indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all. The lack of availability under, and the inability to subsequently refinance, our indebtedness could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and reducing or eliminating other discretionary uses of cash. Public perception and press coverage of single-payment consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. Consumer advocacy groups, certain media reports, and some regulators and elected officials in the several jurisdictions in which we conduct business have from time to time advocated governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict certain types of short-term consumer lending. These efforts have often focused on lenders that charge consumers imputed interest rates and fees that are higher than those charged by credit card issuers to more 24 Table of Contents creditworthy consumers and otherwise characterize our products and services as being predatory or abusive toward consumers. This difference in credit cost may become more pronounced if a consumer does not repay a loan promptly, instead electing to renew the loan for one or more additional short-term periods. If consumers accept this negative characterization of certain single-payment consumer loans and believe that the loans we provide to our customers fit this characterization, demand for our loans could significantly decrease. In addition, media coverage and public statements that assert some form of corporate wrongdoing can lower morale, make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees, management and directors, divert management attention and increase expenses. These trends could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If our estimates of loan losses are not adequate to absorb losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for anticipated losses on consumer loans and loans in default. To estimate the appropriate level of loan loss reserves, we consider known and relevant internal and external factors that affect loan collectability, including the amount of outstanding loans owed to us, historical loans charged off, current collection patterns and current economic trends. Our current allowance for loan losses is based on our charge-offs, expressed as a percentage of loan amounts originated for the last twelve months applied against the principal balance of outstanding loans. As of June 30, 2012, our allowance for loan losses on consumer loans that were not in default was $19.8 million and our allowance for losses on loans in default was $55.9 million. These reserves, however, are estimates, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than our loan loss reserves, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have a significant amount of goodwill which is subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. As of June 30, 2012, we had goodwill of $755.5 million, representing a significant portion of the $1.8 billion in total assets reflected on our consolidated balance sheet as of such date. A substantial portion of our goodwill represents assets capitalized in connection with our historical acquisitions and business combinations. Accounting for intangible assets such as goodwill requires us to make significant estimates and judgments, and as a result we may not realize the value of such intangible assets. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we conduct an impairment analysis of our goodwill annually and at such other times when an event or change in circumstances occurs which would indicate potential impairment. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an intangible asset to become impaired, including that our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs. Should such a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the intangible asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which could adversely affect our reported results of operations and could materially impact the reported balance of our total stockholders’ equity. As a result of such a review, we recorded a goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $27.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, based on the estimated fair value and book value of our DFS business. Legal proceedings may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows in future periods. We are currently subject to several legal proceedings. We are vigorously defending these proceedings. In addition, we are likely to be subject to additional legal proceedings in the future. The resolution of any current or future legal proceeding could cause us to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay damages or other monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate our operations in particular local and federal jurisdictions. We may also be subject to adverse publicity. Defense of any legal proceedings, even if successful, requires substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and requires the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Competition in the financial services industry could cause us to lose market share and revenues. The industry in which we operate is highly fragmented and very competitive, and we believe that the markets in which we compete may become more competitive as the industry consolidates. In addition to other unsecured consumer lending, secured pawn lending, and check cashing stores in the markets in which we operate, we compete with banks and other financial services entities and retail businesses that offer consumer loans, extend pawn loans, cash checks, sell money orders, provide money transfer services or offer other products and services offered by us. Some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby affecting our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Risk and uncertainties related to political and economic conditions in foreign countries in which we operate could negatively impact our operations. We currently conduct the significant majority of our operations outside the United States. If political, regulatory or economic conditions deteriorate in these countries, our ability to conduct our international operations could be limited and our costs could be increased. Moreover, actions or events could occur in these countries that are beyond our control, which could restrict or eliminate our ability to operate in such jurisdictions or significantly reduce product demand and the expected profitability of such operations. Foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our reported results of operations. We currently generate a significant majority of our revenue outside the United States. Our foreign subsidiaries accounted for 81.8% and 87.1% of our total revenues for the years ended June 30, 2011 and 2012, respectively. As a result, our reported results of operations are vulnerable to currency exchange rate fluctuations, principally in the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Swedish Krona and the Euro against the United States Dollar. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. We estimate that a 10.0% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would have impacted reported pre-tax earnings from continuing operations by approximately $13.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2012 and approximately $11.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2011. This impact represents 13.6% of our consolidated pre-tax earnings for the year ended June 30, 2012 and 11.0% of our consolidated foreign pre-tax earnings for the year ended June 30, 2011. The international scope of our operations may contribute to increased costs that could negatively impact our operations. Since international operations increase the complexity of an organization, we may face additional administrative costs in managing our business than we would if we only conducted operations domestically. In addition, most countries typically impose additional burdens on non-domestic companies through the use of local regulations, tariffs and labor controls. Unexpected changes to the foregoing could negatively impact our operations. Furthermore, our financial results may be negatively impacted to the extent tax rates in foreign countries where we operate increase and/or exceed those in the United States and as a result of the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings. A reduction in demand for our products and services, and failure by us to adapt to such potential reduction, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The demand for a particular product or service we offer may be reduced due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that decrease customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products, changes in customers’ preferences or financial conditions. Furthermore, any changes in economic factors 26 Table of Contents that adversely affect consumer transactions and employment could reduce the volume or type of transactions that we process and have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Should we fail to adapt to significant changes in our customers’ demand for, or access to, our products or services, our revenues could decrease significantly and our operations could be harmed. Each modification, new product or service, and alternative method of conducting business is subject to risk and uncertainty and requires significant investment in time and capital, including additional marketing expenses, legal costs, and other incremental start-up costs. Even if we do make changes to existing products or services or introduce new products or services to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject such products or services. The effect of any product change on the results of our business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time and by that time it may be too late to make further modifications to such product or service without causing further harm to our business and results of operations. Our check cashing services may further diminish because of technological advances. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from fees associated with cashing payroll, government and personal checks. In fiscal 2012, we generated approximately 13.1% of our total consolidated revenues from fees associated with check cashing. There has been increasing penetration of electronic banking services into the check cashing and money transfer industry, including direct deposit of payroll checks and electronic transfer of government benefits. To the extent that checks received by our customer base are replaced with such electronic transfers, demand for our check cashing services could decrease. Our ability to open and acquire new stores is subject to outside factors and circumstances over which we have limited control or that are beyond our control which could adversely affect our growth potential. Our expansion strategy includes acquiring existing retail financial services stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous outside factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of acceptable business locations, the ability to access capital to acquire and open such stores, the ability to obtain required permits and licenses and continuing favorable legal and regulatory conditions. We have limited control, and in some cases, no control, over these factors. Moreover, the start-up costs and the losses we likely would incur from initial operations attributable to each newly opened store places demands upon our liquidity and cash flow, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these demands. The failure to execute our expansion strategy would adversely affect our ability to expand our business and could materially adversely affect our revenue, profitability and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our growth effectively. Our expansion strategy, which in part contemplates the addition of new stores, the acquisition of competitor stores and acquiring or developing new distribution channels for our products in Europe, Canada and the United States and other international markets, is subject to significant risks. Our continued growth in this manner is dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management employees, the availability of adequate financing for our expansion activities, the ability to successfully transition acquired stores or their historical customer base to our operating platform, the ability to obtain any government permits and licenses that may be required, the ability to identify and overcome cultural and linguistic differences which may impact market practices within a given geographic region, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully grow our business or that our current business, results of operations and financial condition will not suffer if we are unable to do so. Expansion beyond the geographic areas where the stores are presently located will increase demands on management and divert their attention. In addition, expansion into new products and services will present new challenges to our business and will require additional management time. A significant or sudden decline in the price of gold could materially affect our results of operations. We purchase a significant amount of gold from customers, and the substantial majority of the collateral for our pawn loans consists of gold jewelry. We sell for scrap nearly all of the gold that we purchase and that we take 27 Table of Contents possession of as a result of pawn collateral forfeitures. Pursuant to applicable laws in certain jurisdictions in which we offer gold buying services and securitized pawn loans, and otherwise pursuant to the terms of our pawn loan agreements, we are required to hold the gold that we buy, or that we accept as collateral, for a period of time, which, in the case of pawn loans, can be 6 months or more. Our ability to generate profits from such transactions is dependent in part upon us being able to sell our gold inventory, whether for smelting or on a retail basis, for a price that is consistent with the price that we paid for that gold or, in the case of forfeited pawn loans, for the amount that we originally loaned against forfeited collateral gold. Significant short-term volatility in gold prices, such as that experienced during the recent global economic crisis, may make it difficult for us to effectively price our gold buying services and to set appropriate principal amounts on our pawn loans relative to the gold collateral posted. A significant decline in gold prices could also result in both customers selling less gold to us and a decrease in our pawn loan originations resulting from lower collateral values. Any such change in the value of gold could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and penalties and cause us to lose customers. In the course of operating our business, we are required to manage, use, and store large amounts of personally identifiable information, consisting primarily of confidential personal and financial data regarding our customers. We also depend on our IT networks and systems, and those of third parties, to process, store, and transmit this information. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection, Canadian federal and provincial laws, and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of financial or other individually identifiable information. Security breaches involving our files and infrastructure could lead to unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, as well as shutdowns or disruptions of our systems. If any person, including our employees or those of third-party vendors, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to costly litigation, monetary damages, fines, and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer data by any person, whether through systems failure, unauthorized access to our IT systems, fraud, misappropriation, or negligence, could result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of customers. Any unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information could subject us to liability under data privacy laws and adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Security breaches, cyber attacks or fraudulent activity could result in damage to our operations or lead to reputational damage. A security breach or cyber attack of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. Regardless of the security measures that we may employ, our systems may still be vulnerable to data theft, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If we were to experience a security breach or cyber attack, we could be required to incur substantial costs and liabilities, including: Ÿ expenses to rectify the consequences of the security breach or cyber attack; Ÿ liability for stolen assets or information; Ÿ costs of repairing damage to our systems; Ÿ lost revenue and income resulting from any system downtime caused by such breach or attack; Ÿ increased costs of cyber security protection; Ÿ costs of incentives we may be required to offer to our customers or business partners to retain their business; and Ÿ damage to our reputation causing customers and investors to lose confidence in us. 28 Table of Contents In addition, any compromise of security or a cyber attack could deter consumers from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to our systems. Furthermore, if confidential customer information or information belonging to our business partners is misappropriated from our computer systems, we could be sued by those who assert we did not take adequate precautions to safeguard our systems and confidential data belonging to our customers or business partners, which could subject us to liability and result in significant legal fees and expenses of defending these claims. As a result, any compromise of security of our computer systems or cyber attack could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as fraud including cyber attacks that could lead us to make payments to fraudulent individual accounts. Increased fraud involving our products and services or affecting our customers could lead to litigation, significantly increased expenses, reputational damage and reduced use and acceptance of our products and services or new regulations and compliance obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our MILES program relies upon contractual relationships with its service providers, the loss of any of which could adversely affect the performance of the MILES business and our results of operations generally. Our MILES program provides fee-based services to junior enlisted military personnel applying for automobile loans. The MILES program generates its operating revenue from fees paid by a major third-party national bank funding the loans, fees from auto dealers and fees from the sale of ancillary products such as warranty service contracts and GAP insurance coverage. We rely upon contractual relationships with the third-party national bank and other financing sources for the funding and servicing of auto loans made in connection with the MILES program, and arrangements with other providers for warranty service contracts and GAP insurance contracts. However, if any or all of these contractual relationships were terminated, or if events were to occur which resulted in a material reduction in the services provided, a material increase in the cost of the services provided or a material reduction in the fees earned by it for the services provided under these contractual relationships, we could be required to locate new or alternate service providers for our MILES program. In such event, and until we would be able to locate new or alternate service providers, our MILES program business could be significantly disrupted. In addition, such new or alternate service providers may offer services that are more costly to MILES’ customers or that pay premiums or fees below the level that we currently receive. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. United States defense budget cuts that reduce enlistments or the number of active duty military personnel, or high levels of overseas troop deployments, could harm our MILES program business. The number of enlisted active duty military personnel and the number of recruits joining the military each year are subject to the U.S. defense budget. In addition, high levels of troop deployments overseas can decrease the number of U.S.-based active military personnel, thus reducing the pool of target MILES customers. Changes in troop deployment and cuts in the U.S. defense budget may result in reductions in recruitment targets, reductions in the number of active duty military personnel or both, any of which would reduce the overall number of potential MILES program customers or potentially reduce demand for the services offered by us through our MILES program which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues and earnings to fluctuate. Our business is seasonal due to the impact of several tax-related services, including cashing tax refund checks and making electronic tax filings. Historically, we have generally experienced our highest revenues and earnings during the third fiscal quarter ending March 31, when revenues from these tax-related services peak. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our financial results could be adversely impacted. 29 Table of Contents Because we maintain a supply of cash in our stores, we may be subject to cash shortages due to robbery, employee error and theft. Since our business requires us to maintain a supply of cash in each of our retail financial services stores, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from robberies, as well as employee errors and theft. Although we have implemented various programs to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for theft and provide security, systems and processes for our employees and facilities, we cannot assure you that robberies, employee error and theft will not occur and lead to cash shortages that could adversely affect our results of operations. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the members of our executive management team, which have been instrumental in procuring capital to assist us in executing our growth strategies, identifying and negotiating domestic and international acquisitions, and providing expertise in managing our developing international operations. The loss of the services of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and future development. Our continued growth also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain the requisite personnel as needed in the future, our operating results and growth could suffer. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our business operations. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our retail financial services stores and other businesses. Each store is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Our back-up systems and security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in our information systems. Any disruption in our information systems could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Over the course of the twelve months ended June 30, 2012, the market price of our common stock has been as high as $24.89, and as low as $15.06. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including global economic and market conditions, quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, changes in applicable laws and regulations governing consumer protection and lending practices, the effects of litigation, future sales of common stock, and general stock market price and volume fluctuations. In addition, general political and economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the common stock of many companies, including our common stock. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to retain any future earnings for use in the growth and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 30 Table of Contents Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: Ÿ a board of directors that is classified such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; Ÿ authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; Ÿ limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; Ÿ prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and Ÿ establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These and similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the transaction may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 