ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history with building and managing an investment portfolio of non-conforming mortgage loans held for investment, which limits your ability to evaluate a key component of our business strategy and our growth prospects and increases your investment risk. In August 2003, we began implementing our portfolio strategy of retaining a substantial portion of the non-conforming loans that we originate. Our portfolio is financed by issuing mortgage-backed securities secured by these loans. From August 1, 2003 through December 31, 2003, we retained 50% of the non-conforming loans we originated during that period. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we retained 66% and 47%, respectively, of the non-conforming loans we originated during those periods, and we expect to continue to retain approximately 60% of the non-conforming loans we originate until we have invested all of the proceeds from the 144A Offering according to our portfolio strategy subject to market conditions and loan repayment experience. After we have invested all of these proceeds, the percentage of loans that we retain will vary based primarily upon the rate of prepayments of principal on the loans that we hold in our portfolio and the availability of loans which meet our investment criteria, unless we change our targeted leverage or raise additional equity. As we have only been managing our investment portfolio for a little over thirty months and many of our securitizations have not yet matured, there is limited past performance data upon which to evaluate our business strategy and growth prospects, thus increasing your investment risk. 28 Our ability to complete securitizations in the future depends in part upon the past performance of our investment pools, which due to our limited history, limits your ability to evaluate our business strategy making your investment risky. Our ability to complete securitizations in the future will depend upon a number of factors, including the experience and ability of our management team, conditions in the securities markets generally, conditions in the mortgage-backed securities market specifically, and the performance of our portfolio of securitized loans. In addition, poor performance of any pool of loans that we securitize could increase the cost of any of our subsequent securitizations. If we are unable to securitize efficiently the loans in our portfolio, then our revenues for the duration of our investment in those loans could decline, which would lower our earnings for the time the loans remain in our portfolio. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete loan securitizations in the future on favorable terms, or at all. Dependence upon financing facilities and securitizations and our ability to maintain our status as a REIT may create liquidity risks. Liquidity risks associated with credit facilities. Pending sale or securitization of a pool of mortgage loans, we will finance mortgage loans that we originate through borrowings under our warehouse lines and repurchase facilities. We also finance the securities we retain in our securitizations through repurchase facilities. It is possible that our lenders could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to us, independent of our performance or the performance of our loans. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, our lenders may be required to increase significantly the cost of the lines of credit that they provide to us. Our repurchase facilities are dependent on our counterparties’ ability to re-sell loans or securities originated by us to third parties. If there is a disruption of the repurchase market generally, or if one of our counterparties is itself unable to access the repurchase market, our access to this source of liquidity could be materially adversely affected. We finance substantially all of our loans and retained securities through two warehouse lines and six repurchase facilities. Each of these facilities is cancelable by the lender for cause at any time. As of December 31, 2005, the maximum available outstanding balance under these eight facilities was $2.275 billion. The initial term of each facility is generally 364 days or less (with the exception of one of our repurchase facilities secured by our retained securities which is open indefinitely but may be terminated by either party upon proper notice) and the facilities mature at various times during the year. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to extend these existing facilities on favorable terms, or at all. If we are not able to renew any of these credit facilities or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default or are otherwise unable to access funds under any of these facilities, we may not be able to originate new loans or continue to fund our operations. Cash could be required to meet margin calls under the terms of our borrowings in the event that there is a decline in the market value of the loans or retained securities that collateralize our debt, the terms of short-term debt become less attractive, or for other reasons. If we are required to meet significant margin calls, we may not be able to originate new loans or continue to fund our operations. Liquidity risks associated with credit enhancements provided in connection with our securitizations. In connection with our securitizations, we include credit enhancement for a portion of the mortgage-backed securities that we issue called “senior securities.” The credit enhancement for the senior securities comes primarily from one or more of the following: excess interest and over-collateralization, which may include interest rate swap agreements, designating another portion of the securities we issue as “subordinate securities” (on which the credit risk from the loans is concentrated), cross collateralization, or purchasing financial guaranty insurance policies for the loans. If the performance of the loans pledged 29 to collateralize the mortgage-backed securities is worse than the thresholds set forth in the securitization documents, then the excess interest we would otherwise receive will be used to build over-collateralization to provide additional credit enhancement for the outstanding senior securities reducing the excess interest we receive from the investment pool. In addition, some of the mortgage-backed securities that we have issued and intend to issue in the future to finance our portfolio of loans require, or will require, in the early years after issuance of the mortgage-backed securities that we “lock out” cash flows and receive less than our pro-rata share of cash flows from principal payments. As a result of this, the excess interest we receive may be delayed or reduced, which could materially affect our net income and dividends. The market for subordinate securities could become temporarily illiquid or trade at steep discounts, thereby reducing the cash flow we receive over time from the loans securing our mortgage-backed securities. If we purchase financial guaranty insurance policies and the expense of these insurance policies increases, our net income will be reduced as the cost of borrowing increases. While we have used these senior and subordinated credit enhancement features in connection with our previous securitizations, we cannot assure you that these features will be available at costs that would allow us to achieve our desired level of net income from future securitizations. If prepayments on the loans securitizing any of our mortgage-backed securities slow or our credit quality deteriorates, cash flow that we might otherwise receive in connection with the mortgage-backed securities might be delayed significantly or reduced to cover credit losses. Liquidity risks associated with our REIT status. If our minimum distribution required to maintain our REIT status exceeds our cash available for distribution, because our income for tax purposes exceeded our cash flow from operations, we could be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or raise capital on unfavorable terms in order to maintain our REIT status. Additionally, negative cash flow could threaten our continued ability to satisfy the income and assets tests necessary to maintain our status as a REIT or our solvency. See “Tax Risks.” Liquidity risks associated with the change in our business strategy. In August 2003, we began to retain a portion of our non-conforming loans to build a portfolio of non-conforming mortgages and issue mortgage-backed securities, rather than selling these loans for a gain shortly after origination. As indicated above, some of the mortgage-backed securities that we have issued and expect to issue in the future may require that any excess interest from the mortgages that we would otherwise receive be held as over-collateralization reserves to provide additional credit enhancements if the performance of the mortgage-backed securities is worse than certain agreed upon thresholds limiting the excess interest we receive from our securitizations. For some period of time our portfolio of securitized loans may not generate sufficient net interest income to cover our operating expenses, and in this event we will use cash and unborrowed collateral, which totaled approximately $232 million as of December 31, 2005, as we continue to originate new loans for our portfolio. This amount is comprised of the proceeds remaining from the 144A Offering and retained earnings. If we have fully invested all of our cash and unborrowed collateral prior to our portfolio generating sufficient cash for us to fund our operations, if it ever does, then we will need to sell additional shares of capital stock or debt securities to generate additional working capital or, if we are unable to sell additional securities on reasonable terms or at all, we will need to either reduce our origination business or sell a higher portion of our loans. If we sell our loans rather than put them into our investment portfolio, then we will reduce the rate at which we increase our portfolio and we will owe taxes relative to any gains we achieve by selling our loans. In the event that our liquidity needs exceed our available capital, we may need to sell assets at an inopportune time, which will result in a reduction in our earnings. 30 The failure to prevail in our litigation with our former shareholders could have a negative effect on our liquidity. On May 24, 2004, certain of our former shareholders prior to the closing of the 144A Offering, filed a lawsuit against us alleging that they are entitled to an additional post-closing redemption price payment of between $15.8 million and $19.8 million. These shareholders’ shares were redeemed following the closing of the 144A Offering, for approximately $186.3 million. On June 14, 2004, we filed our answer generally denying all of the allegations in the complaint. The Redemption Agreement between the redeemed shareholders and us required us to adjust the redemption price we paid to the redeemed shareholders based on our November 13, 2003 balance sheet, as audited by KPMG LLP (KPMG). On January 12, 2004, KPMG issued an independent auditors’ report of our November 13, 2003 balance sheet. Based on the November 13, 2003 balance sheet and the terms of the Redemption Agreement, we paid an additional $1.8 million to the redeemed shareholders on February 18, 2004, for a total adjusted redemption price of $188.1 million. The lawsuit alleges that our November 13, 2003 balance sheet should have included a deferred tax asset that, if included, would have increased our net worth on November 13, 2003. The lawsuit also alleges that the redeemed shareholders are entitled to an increase in the redemption price if our November 13, 2003 balance sheet is revised to include the deferred tax asset. On April 20, 2004, following notification by the redeemed shareholders of their dispute concerning our November 13, 2003 balance sheet, KPMG advised that their January 12, 2004 independent auditors’ report of our November 13, 2003 balance sheet should no longer be relied upon. On September 9, 2004, in its response to a request for disclosure from the plaintiffs, KPMG stated, among other things, that it had determined that the deferred tax asset, which is reflected in our December 31, 2003 audited financial statements, should have been reflected in our November 13, 2003 balance sheet. On October 28, 2005, we served a cross claim against KPMG asserting, among other claims, that KPMG’s withdrawal of its audit report on the November 13, 2003 balance sheet was improper and that due to this improper withdrawal we suffered damages. If we ultimately are unsuccessful defending the shareholder suit, we could be required to pay to the redeemed shareholders an amount in excess of $19.0 million, plus any potential interest or third-party costs associated with the litigation, which at such time could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. The $19.0 million payment will be an increase in the redemption price of the redeemed shares and will be recorded as a reduction of our paid in capital in the period in which the dispute is resolved and will not be reflected in our statement of operations. Any interest and other third-party costs, if payable as part of a settlement, will be recorded as a reduction to earnings in the period in which the dispute is resolved. Our ability to generate net interest income from our securitized loans is dependent upon the success of our portfolio-based model of securitizations, which is subject to several risks. The success of our portfolio-based model of securitizations is subject to the effects of fluctuations in interest rates and loan defaults. We expect to generate a substantial portion of our earnings and cash flow from the non-conforming loans we originate and securitize, primarily through net interest income. A substantial portion of the net interest income generated by our securitized loans is based upon the difference between the weighted average interest earned on the mortgage loans held in our portfolio and the interest payable to holders of the mortgage-backed securities. The interest expense on the mortgage-backed securities is typically adjusted monthly relative to market interest rates. Because the interest expense associated with the mortgage-backed securities typically adjusts faster than the interest income from the mortgage loans, our net interest income can be volatile in response to changes in interest rates. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, the interest expense on our bonds increases whereas the underlying loans, which are predominately fixed-rate loans for an initial 24 month period, remain constant thereby decreasing the excess interest we may receive from the securitized pool. Also, the net interest income we receive from securitizations will likely decrease and our cash flow will be reduced if there are defaults on a significant 31 number of our securitized loans or if a large number of our securitized loans prepay prior to their scheduled maturities. The effects will be magnified if the defaults or prepayments occur with respect to securitized loans with interest rates that are high relative to the rest of our securitized loans. Generally, loans with higher relative interest rates represent loans to higher-risk borrowers and these loans generally have a higher default rate than loans to lower-risk borrowers. As a result, our cash flow could be significantly reduced, limiting our ability to make distributions to you. We are subject to the risk of margin calls while our loans held for investment or retained securities are financed with short term borrowings, and we are obligated to repay the full amount of our debt under our short term borrowings regardless of the value of the mortgage loans or retained securities collateralizing the debt. Our portfolio-based model is based on our expectation that the interest income we receive from the loans in the portfolio will exceed the interest expense of the debt we incur for financing those loans. However, we are required to repay our portfolio debt regardless of the loans’ performance, which means that our portfolio income is at risk for the expense of repaying our debt as well as for the performance of the loans. This is true both for the short-term debt we incur to finance loans held for investment prior to securitization, or retained securities and for the securitization debt that we incur as long-term financing of our loans held for investment. We are subject to two risks while our loans held for investment and retained securities are financed with short term borrowings that we are not subject to relative to our securitization debt: first, we may be required to make additional payments to our lenders (known as “margin calls”) relative to our short term financing if the lenders determine that the market value of the mortgage loans or retained securities they hold as collateral has declined, which could happen at any time as a result of increases in market interest rates; and second, we are obligated to repay the full amount of our debt under our short term borrowings regardless of the value of the mortgage loans or retained securities collateralizing the debt. If we receive a margin call or if we are required to repay our debt under our short-term borrowings prior to securitizing the loans, our cash flows and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our securitization debt is long-term structured debt on which we never have margin calls and are at risk only for the amount we have invested in the loans, which exceeds the securitization debt. Credit enhancement requirements may reduce, delay or eliminate our net interest income. As a relatively new issuer of mortgage-backed securities, we may be required to provide higher than average levels of credit enhancement on our initial securitizations than more seasoned issuers, which may raise our cost of funds or delay our receipt of net interest income from our securitizations. Even after we have established ourselves as an issuer of mortgage-backed securities, if any of our loan pools fail to perform, our credit enhancement expenses likely will increase. The nature and level of credit enhancement required to achieve specified ratings for a securitization transaction are established in negotiations and discussions among the issuer, underwriter and rating agencies and are based, in significant measure, on the loan characteristics of the securitized pool. To date, we have securitized nine separate pools of residential mortgage loans. Our securitizations have been structured to achieve AAA ratings for the most senior classes of issued securities. To achieve those ratings, our securitization transactions have included credit enhancement in the form of structural subordination, over-collateralization and the allocation of excess cash flow to cover pool losses. We have retained the most subordinated interest in each securitized pool. Our securitization transactions generally require an initial credit enhancement percentage of approximately 3.37% of the transaction to support BBB ratings for the most junior classes of securities issued. After the initial 36 months, the required credit enhancement percentage may be reduced in accordance with a prescribed formula, subject to the satisfaction of certain pool performance criteria. Specifically, any reduction in the credit enhancement percentage is conditioned upon satisfaction of certain pool loss and delinquency levels criteria, sometimes referred to as triggers. The loss triggers for our 32 outstanding securitizations require that the credit enhancement percentage not be reduced if pool losses exceed certain percentages, which increase over the life of the pool. The delinquency triggers for our outstanding transactions require that all principal receipts on the mortgage loans be allocated to senior classes of securities if the percentage of pool mortgage loans that are 60 days or more delinquent represents more than approximately 34% to 41%, depending on the transaction, of the senior credit enhancement percentage available to such senior classes. As the holder of the ownership certificate in our securitized pools, we are entitled to distributions from the securitization trusts only to the extent that amounts received in respect of the securitized mortgage loans are not allocated to the payment of any related outstanding class of securities. Therefore, as a result of the required credit enhancement provisions and, particularly, the effects of loss and delinquency triggers, credit losses or delinquencies on the mortgage loans in a securitized pool could result in the delay, reduction or elimination of amounts available for distribution to us from the related securitized pool. We may not succeed in developing a portfolio-based model of securitizations. We expect to rely upon our ability to securitize our non-conforming loans to generate cash proceeds for repayment of our warehouse lines and repurchase facilities and to originate additional conforming and non-conforming mortgage loans. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be successful in securitizing a substantial portion of the non-conforming loans that we accumulate. In the event that it is not possible or economical for us to complete the securitization of a substantial portion of our non-conforming loans, we may continue to hold these loans and bear the risks of interest rate changes and loan defaults and delinquencies, and we may exceed our capacity under our warehouse lines and repurchase facilities and be unable or limited in our ability to originate future mortgage loans. If we determine that we should sell all or part of our non-conforming loans initially funded in our investment portfolio rather than securitizing them, there could be a significant reduction in our net income and stockholder distributions because of the potential application of a 100% tax on gains of such sales pursuant to the rules governing REITs. The senior securities that we issue in connection with our securitizations have various ratings and are priced at a fixed rate or at a spread over an identified benchmark rate, such as the yield on United States Treasury bonds, interest rate swaps, or the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR). If the spread that investors demand over the benchmark rate widens and the rates we charge on our non-conforming loans are not commensurately increased, we may experience a decrease in the net interest income from any additional securitizations and therefore experience a reduction in the economic value of the pool of loans in our portfolio. Fluctuating or rising interest rates may reduce our earnings or limit or eliminate our ability to borrow under our credit facilities and to originate mortgages. Changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans, affect the value of the conforming and non-conforming loans we have originated prior to the time of the change in interest rates, inhibit our ability to securitize our non-conforming loans, or diminish the value of our retained interests in loan pools. Because the interest payable on the mortgage-backed securities issued in a securitization generally will adjust monthly and be based on shorter term floating interest rates, and the interest income we receive from our securitized loans generally will either be fixed, adjust less frequently than monthly or be subject to caps on the rates the borrowers pay, the net interest income generated by the securitized mortgages likely will decrease in a period of rising interest rates. In addition, when interest rates rise, the variable interest rates that we pay to finance our operations may rise above the interest we collect on our loans. 33 Fluctuations in interest rates may also affect our profitability in other ways, including the following: · lower interest rates may cause prepayments to increase, reducing our net interest income over time from our securitized loans; · higher interest rates may reduce overall demand for mortgage loans, and accordingly reduce our origination of new loans; · increases in short-term or long-term interest rates may reduce the value of loans on our consolidated statement of condition; and · decreases in short-term interest rates will result in a non-cash charge being recognized for income reporting to reflect the mark to market values of the interest rate derivatives hedging the variable rate debt financing our held for investment portfolio. In addition, the amount available to us under our credit facilities depends in large part on the lender’s valuation of the mortgage loans or retained securities that secure the facilities. Each credit facility provides the lender the right, under certain circumstances, to re-evaluate the loan collateral or retained securities that secures our outstanding borrowings at any time. In the event the lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it has the right to initiate a margin call. A margin call would require us to provide the lender with additional collateral or to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings at a time when we may not have a sufficient inventory of loans, retained securities or cash to satisfy the margin call. Accordingly, any failure by us to meet a margin call could cause us to default on our credit facilities and limit or eliminate our ability to borrow and to originate mortgages. Our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures may not be adequate to ensure that we are able to report accurately our financial results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. In order to establish effective internal control over financial reporting, we must evaluate and document the design of and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During this process, we may identify deficiencies in our system of internal control over financial reporting that may require remediation. Deficiencies in our internal controls could lead to, among other things, restatements of our past financial statements exposing us to risk of litigation and regulatory action as well as affect our ability to raise capital and/or securitize mortgage loans in the future. As a non-accelerated filer, the Company has not yet completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as defined under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, in conjunction with the audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2005 and the reaudit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, reported a material weakness and a significant deficiency to our Audit Committee. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably and in accordance with GAAP, such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. See “Risks Related to our Restatement of our Financial Statements” for a discussion of the nature of the material weakness. Deloitte & Touche LLP reported a significant deficiency in our information technology area related to access controls that leave us vulnerable to unauthorized or inappropriate access to relevant financial reporting applications or data, and change management controls. Additionally, our former independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG, reported similar significant deficiencies in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2004. Management has been developing and 34 implementing remediation plans to address these matters. Any failure to remediate a material weakness or a significant deficiency or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to legal and regulatory action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure may be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed, and will continue to place, pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We also intend to increase our business in the future by permanently servicing and continuing to securitize non-conforming loans, which will require capital and systems development and human resources beyond those that we currently have. To develop the capacity to permanently service loans, we may acquire a third party with servicing capacity or a servicing component of a third party or, alternatively, develop servicing capacity internally. If we are unable to or choose not to acquire this servicing capacity from a third party, we will require significant time to develop the capacity internally. We have not determined how we will develop the servicing capacity and as a result, we cannot determine if and when we will have the capacity to service our non-conforming loans on a permanent basis. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify and hire additional qualified employees, satisfactorily perform our servicing obligations or incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire to achieve this growth. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, we may become less efficient in originating, selling and securitizing loans, which could result in a decrease in our profit on loans sold and our net interest income from retained loans. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with changes in interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When interest rates change, we expect the gain or loss on derivatives to be offset by a related but inverse change in the value of loans held for sale. We cannot assure you, however, that our use of derivatives will fully offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we will recognize losses on our derivative financial instruments under required accounting rules that will not be fully offset by gains we recognize on loans held for sale or loans held for investment. The derivative financial instruments that we select may not have the effect of reducing our price risk on our loans, including our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed transactions or unanticipated market fluctuations could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the period in which the income or expense from the hedging transaction is recognized in our earnings will coincide with the period or periods in which the income or expense from the item we are economically hedging will be recognized in our earnings because we are marking to market our interest rate derivatives economically hedging our variable rate debt through earnings each period. These derivatives are structured to limit the volatility of our current period interest expense due to changes in interest rates over a period of generally two years. The fair market value of the derivatives will incorporate the market’s expected level of interest rates in these future periods. Accordingly, the mark to market of the derivatives through the income statement will bring the market’s 35 expectation about changes in interest rates in the future into current period earnings. It is possible that there will be periods during which we will recognize non-cash losses on derivative transactions that may result in us reporting a net loss for the period. As a result, without cash flow hedge accounting, our reported earnings will be subject to greater volatility. Our portfolio consists primarily of adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) loans, many of which are “interest only” for the first five years, which exposes us to a higher risk of default. Our portfolio consists almost entirely of adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) loans, the payments on which are adjustable from time to time as interest rates change, generally after an initial two-year period during which the loans’ interest rates are fixed and do not change. After the initial fixed rate period, the borrowers’ payments on our ARM loans adjust once every six months to a pre-determined margin over a measure of market interest rates, generally the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for one-month deposits. As of December 31, 2005 , approximately 60% of our ARM loans held for investment also have an “interest only” feature for the first five years of the loan, so that the borrowers do not begin to re-pay the principal balance of the loans until after the fifth year of the loans. After the fifth year, the borrowers’ payments increase to amortize the entire principal balance owed over the remaining years of the loan. These features will likely result in the borrowers’ payments increasing in the future. The interest adjustment feature generally will result in an increased payment after the second year of the loan and the interest only feature will result in an increased payment after the fifth year of the loan. Since these features will increase the debt service requirements of our borrowers, it may increase our risk of default in our investment portfolio for loans that remain in our portfolio for at least two years (relative to the ARM feature) or for five years (relative to the interest only feature). Our credit facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and any default under these credit facilities would inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. Our existing credit facilities generally contain extensive restrictions and covenants and require us to maintain or satisfy specified financial ratios and tests, including among other things, minimum levels of consolidated tangible net worth, liquidity and profitability, maximum ratio of indebtedness to consolidated adjusted tangible net worth and maintenance of asset quality and portfolio performance tests. Failure to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, financial ratios or financial tests could result in an event of default under these agreements. These agreements are secured by our loans prior to or sale securitization or our retained securities and also contain cross-default provisions, so that an event of default under any agreement may trigger an event of default under other agreements, giving the lenders the right to declare all amounts outstanding under their particular credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, enforce their rights by foreclosing on collateral pledged under these agreements and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings under these agreements. Our credit facilities also restrict our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · acquire all or substantially all of the assets or ownership interests of another entity; and · engage in mergers or consolidations. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. 36 We do not have comprehensive historical loan performance data on our loans sold on which to base future loan performance estimates on our loans held for investment. If we do not receive the payments from the loans that we anticipate, our revenues may be insufficient to cover our costs to originate, the interest expense and the losses on these loans, as well as the repayment of principal on the securitization used to finance these loans. Through June 2003, we sold all of the loans that we originated on a whole-loan, servicing-released basis. As a result, we are unable to track the delinquency, loss and prepayment history of these loans. Consequently, we do not have representative historical delinquency, bankruptcy, foreclosure, default or prepayment experience that may be referred to for purposes of estimating future delinquency, loss and prepayment rates for our originated loans. In view of our lack of historical loan performance data, it is extremely difficult to validate our loss or prepayment assumptions used to calculate assumed net interest income in current and future securitizations of our non-conforming loans. If we do not receive the payments from the loans that we have anticipated, our revenues may be insufficient to cover our costs to originate, the interest expense and losses on these loans, as well as the repayment of principal on the securitization, used to finance these loans. The greater the difference between our assumptions and actual performance proves to be, the greater the effect will be on our earnings, the interest rates and over-collateralization levels of our mortgage-backed securities, the timing and receipt of our future revenues, the value of the residual interests held on our statement of condition and our cash flow. If the prepayment rates for our mortgage loans are higher than expected, our net interest income may be reduced. The rate and timing of unscheduled payments and collections of principal on our loans is impossible to predict accurately and will be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the level of prevailing interest rates, refinancing incentives that are a function of home value changes, restrictions on voluntary prepayments contained in the loans, the availability of lender credit and other economic, demographic, geographic, tax and legal factors. In general, however, if prevailing interest rates fall significantly below the interest rate on a loan, the borrower is more likely to prepay the then higher rate loan than if prevailing rates remain at or above the interest rate on the loan. Unscheduled principal prepayments are permitted under all of our loans. Our results of operations could be reduced to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the funds we receive from unscheduled principal prepayments at an equivalent or higher rate, if at all. In addition, a large amount of prepayments, especially prepayments on loans with interest rates that are high relative to the rest of the loan portfolio, will likely decrease the net interest income we receive from the portfolio. Also, elevated prepayment levels will cause the amortization of deferred origination costs to increase and reduce net interest income. Our non-conforming loans are underwritten to non-conforming underwriting standards, which may result in losses or shortfalls on our mortgage-backed securities. We underwrite all of our non-conforming loans in accordance with our non-conforming credit underwriting standards. A non-conforming mortgage loan is a mortgage loan which is ineligible for purchase by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac due to either loan size, credit characteristics of the borrower or documentation standards in connection with the underwriting of the borrower’s income. The credit characteristics that cause a loan to be ineligible include those where there is a relatively higher level of debt service carried by the borrower, higher LTV, and loans to borrowers who may have a record of credit write-offs, outstanding judgments, prior bankruptcies and other credit items that do not satisfy the Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines. Documentation standards that are not eligible may include borrowers who provide limited or no documentation of their income in connection with the underwriting of the related mortgage loan. Accordingly, mortgage loans underwritten under our non-conforming credit underwriting standards are likely to experience rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss that are higher, and may be substantially higher, than mortgage loans originated in accordance with Fannie Mae or 37 Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines. We cannot provide assurance that our underwriting criteria or collection methods will afford adequate protection against the higher risks associated with loans made to non-conforming borrowers. As a result, our net interest income from our securitizations may be reduced. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold, or replace loans that have been securitized, which could significantly reduce our cash flow and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When we sell or securitize a loan we make certain representations, warranties and covenants regarding certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, including, without limitation, that: · we will deliver all required documentation within the applicable time period for delivery; · we will repurchase the loan in the event of an early payment default (generally defined as a default of the first payment after sale or default of two of the first four payments after sale); and · the borrower’s credit documents submitted for loan underwriting were not falsified, contained no untrue statement of material fact and did not omit any statement of a material fact. If we are found to have breached any of our representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or, in the case of securitized loans, replace them with substitute loans or cash. If this occurs, we may have to bear any associated losses directly. In addition, in the case of loans that we sold, we may be required to indemnify the purchasers of the loans for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against these loans is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments we make could significantly reduce our cash flow and limit our ability to make distributions to you. See “Item 1 Business-Regulatory Compliance, Quality Control and Licensing-Regulatory Compliance.” The success of our portfolio management and securitization business will depend upon our ability to service effectively the loans held in our portfolio and in our securitizations. When we securitize non-conforming loans, we remain named servicer while contracting for master and sub-servicing responsibilities for the servicing rights for those loans, including, but not limited to, all collection, advancing and loan level reporting obligations, maintenance of custodial and escrow accounts, and maintenance of insurance and enforcement of foreclosure proceedings. Historically, we have only serviced loans for the initial interim period between when we fund the loans and when we sell the loans and transfer the servicing at the direction of the purchaser. We have no experience servicing a large portfolio of loans for an extended period of time. We must either implement a servicing function or continue to contract with a third party to service the loans for us to fully implement our strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to service the loans according to industry standards either now or in the future. Any failure to service the loans properly will harm our operating results. Because we have not built or acquired the servicing capabilities that we need, we presently contract with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, an experienced servicer of non-conforming loans, to “sub-service” our loans held in the portfolio for us, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., an experienced master servicer of non-conforming mortgage loans, to serve as master servicer. The aggregate fees paid to our master servicer and sub-servicer, generally between 21 and 25 basis points of the outstanding principal balance, are a component of our general and administrative expenses. Furthermore, our net interest income depends upon the effectiveness of the third party sub-servicer servicing these loans. 38 A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values may result in a reduction of mortgage origination activity and an increase in foreclosures, which could limit our ability to grow our loan portfolio and thus our net income. An economic slowdown or a recession may have an adverse impact on our operations and our financial condition, particularly if accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values likely will reduce our level of new originations because borrowers use increases in the value of their homes to support new loans and higher levels of borrowings. Declining real estate values also negatively affect loan-to-value ratios of our existing loans and increase the likelihood that borrowers may default on existing loans. Any sustained period of delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect our net interest income from loans in our portfolio, as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans. The residential mortgage origination business is a cyclical industry, and we expect that a rise in interest rates may result in a decreased volume of loan originations in the foreseeable future resulting in increased competition for the remaining loans. The residential mortgage origination business historically has been a cyclical industry, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The residential mortgage industry has experienced rapid growth in recent years due largely to declining interest rates. The Mortgage Bankers Association of America has predicted that residential mortgage originations will decrease in 2006 relative to the 2005 levels due to rising interest rates. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations decrease, as higher interest rates provide reduced economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgages. Due to stable and decreasing interest rates over recent years, our historical performance will not be indicative of results in a rising interest rate environment. If interest rates rise, the number of loan originations may decrease generally, resulting in increased competition for the remaining loans. In addition, our recent and rapid growth may distort some of our ratios and financial statistics and may make period-to-period comparisons difficult. In light of this growth, our historical performance and operating and origination data may be of little relevance in predicting our future performance. Our business may be significantly affected by the economies of California and Illinois, where we conduct a significant amount of our business. In 2005 approximately 43.0% of the loans we originated were loans secured by properties located in California, and 7.3% were loans secured by properties located in Illinois. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, or the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake or flood, in California or Illinois could adversely affect the value of the mortgaged properties in those states and increase the risk of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy or loss on mortgage loans in our portfolio. This would negatively affect our ability to originate, sell and securitize mortgage loans, which could result in a decrease in our profit on loans sold and our net interest income from retained loans. We face intense competition that could adversely affect our market share and our revenues. We face intense competition from finance and mortgage banking companies, other mortgage REITs, Internet-based lending companies where entry barriers are relatively low and, to a growing extent, from traditional bank and thrift lenders that have entered the mortgage industry. As we seek to expand our business, we will face a significant number of additional competitors that may be well established in the markets we seek to penetrate. Some of our competitors are much larger than we are, have better name recognition than we do and have far greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition to mortgage banking companies, other mortgage REITs, Internet-based lending companies, traditional banks and thrift lenders, the government-sponsored entities (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac), are also expanding their participation in the mortgage industry. These 39 government-sponsored entities have a size and cost-of-funds advantage that allows them to purchase loans with lower rates or fees than we are able to offer. While these entities are not legally authorized to originate mortgage loans, they do have the authority to buy loans. A material expansion of their involvement in the market to purchase non-conforming loans could change the dynamics of the industry by virtue of their sheer size, pricing power and the inherent advantages of a government charter. In addition, if as a result of their purchasing practices, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac experiences significantly higher-than-expected losses, the experience could adversely affect the overall investor perception of the non-conforming mortgage industry. The intense competition in the non-conforming mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current retail and wholesale origination structure and information systems to compete effectively. An inability to continue enhancing our current systems and Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the mortgage industry can take many forms, affecting interest rates and costs of a loan, stringency of underwriting standards, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, loan amounts and loan terms and marketing and distribution channels. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in a competitive environment may create price competition, which could cause us to lower the interest rates that we charge borrowers, and could lower the value of our loans held for sale or in our portfolio, or credit competition, which could cause us to adopt less stringent underwriting standards. The combination of price competition and credit competition could result in greater loan risk without compensating pricing. If we do not address either or both of these competitive pressures in response to our competitors, we could lose market share, reduce the volume of our loan originations and sales and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An interruption in or breach of our information systems could impair our ability to originate loans on a timely basis and may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third-party information systems that we rely on could cause delays in underwriting, fewer loan applications to be received and processed and reduced efficiency in loan servicing. We currently contract with a third party, LION, Inc., to provide a software database application to track and provide market valuations for our conforming originations and related derivatives. This contract is renewable annually. We also contract with a third party, Ceridian Corporation, to provide payroll services, including employee pay disbursement, payroll tax deposits and all related federal and state payroll tax reporting requirements. This contract is renewable annually. We cannot assure you that no failures or interruptions will occur or, if they do occur, that we or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2005 and 2004 we had significant deficiencies in the information technology area related to systems access and change management controls. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report external financial data reliably and in accordance with GAAP, such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. If we are unable to remediate these significant deficiencies, it could materially impair our ability to implement effective internal control over financial reporting. 40 If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of independent brokers, our loan origination business will decrease. A significant portion of the mortgage loans that we originate comes from independent brokers. In 2005, approximately 4,700 brokers were involved in the origination of approximately 87% of our mortgage loans. Our brokers are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with our brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to obtain loans from our brokers and to expand broker networks. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining our existing broker relationships or expanding our broker networks. If we are not successful, it could negatively affect the volume and pricing of our loans. Loss of our key management or the inability to attract and retain key employees may impair our ability to operate successfully. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and the senior management of Fieldstone Mortgage, particularly, Messrs. Sonnenfeld, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kisnadwala, our Chief Financial Officer, Buczynski, our Executive Vice President—Secondary, Hagan, Executive Vice President—Production (Fieldstone Mortgage), Kendall, our Senior Vice President—Investment Portfolio and Camp, Senior Vice President—Chief Information Officer. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior managers, or other key employees, could harm our business and our prospects. Further, loss of a key member of our senior management team could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, we depend on our production managers, account executives and loan officers to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with mortgage brokers, other financial institutions, mortgage companies, real estate agents and real estate brokers and others. These relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled production managers, account executives and loan officers is highly competitive. Competition for qualified production managers, account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled production managers, account executives and loan officers at manageable costs, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application made by the applicant, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If a third party misrepresents any of this information and we do not discover the misrepresentation prior to funding the loan, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than anticipated. As a practical matter, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation whether it is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees. A loan that is subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. Although we may have rights against persons who, or entities that, made, or knew about, the misrepresentation, those persons and entities may be difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to collect from them any monetary losses that we have suffered. In addition, for approximately 45% of the non-conforming loans that we originate, we receive little or no documentation of the borrowers’ income. Instead, we base our credit decisions on the borrowers’ credit score and credit history, the collateral value of the property securing the loan and the effect of the loan on 41 the borrowers’ debt service. There is a higher risk of default on loans where there is little or no documentation of the borrower’s income. The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our mortgage loan origination business is dependent upon our ability to interface effectively with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to effectively and efficiently process loan applications. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon advanced technology to process applications over the Internet, interface with brokers, borrowers and other third parties through electronic means and underwrite loan applications. We have been implementing a new third-party software system for our loan origination system. The estimated cost of implementing this new system is approximately $6.1 million, of which $5.4 million of costs have been incurred through December 31, 2005. Implementing this new technology and maintaining the effectiveness and efficiency of the technology currently used in our operations may require significant additional capital expenditures and personal resources. There is no guarantee that the implementation of our new loan origination system or other new technology will be successful. We were originally scheduled to implement our new loan origination system for our non-conforming wholesale segment in the fourth quarter of 2005. However, in order to complete the testing and evaluation of the loan documents and data on the system, we have delayed the roll out until the second and third quarters of 2006. Further delays in the implementation of our new loan origination system for our non-conforming wholesale segment may put us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors who have more efficient and cost effective systems and may significantly increase the cost of implementation. Additionally, the failure of the new loan origination system to produce loan documentation that is compliant with applicable federal or state laws and regulations could subject us to federal or state regulatory action or private suits that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that we become reliant upon any particular technology or technological solution, we may be harmed to the extent that such technology or technological solution (i) becomes non-compliant with existing industry standards, (ii) fails to meet or exceed the capabilities of our competitors’ equivalent technologies or technological solutions, (iii) becomes increasingly expensive to service, retain and update, or (iv) becomes subject to third-party claims of copyright or patent infringement. Any failure to acquire technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and could also limit our ability to increase the cost-efficiencies of our operating model, which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our operations are subject to a body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of non-compliance. Because we originate loans nationwide, we must comply with the laws, rules and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all relevant jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal laws, rules and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws, rules and regulations has increased in recent years, and, in addition, individual municipalities have begun to enact laws, rules and regulations that restrict loan origination activities, and in some cases loan servicing activities. The laws, rules and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to understand and deal with all of these laws, rules and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of non-compliance. Local jurisdictions in Ohio, Illinois and Maryland have enacted laws restricting loan origination activities. In Cleveland Heights, Ohio, where we lend, additional disclosures are required. In Cleveland, 42 Ohio, where we do not currently lend, restrictions have been placed on loan flipping, negative amortization, balloon loans as well as caps on points, fees and APRs for first and second liens. In Illinois, the State has established a four-year pilot program in certain areas of Cook County to monitor predatory lending practices. While the law was to take effect on January 1, 2006, the Illinois regulator has delayed the effective date of the law until it announces an inception date. In the event that we continue lending in these areas in Cook County, we will be required to comply with the requirements of the law within 30 days after the announcement of the inception date which would require us to adopt a number of new procedures in order to originate and fund residential mortgage loans in Cook County and increasing our costs to originate loans in this area. No inception date has been announced. In Montgomery County, Maryland, the local government has passed an anti-predatory lending ordinance, which unlike other anti-predatory lending laws does not contain a points and fees trigger. Rather, the ordinance expands the categories of lending activities that constitute discriminatory housing practices under Montgomery County’s anti-discrimination law, and increases from $5,000 to $500,000 the amount of damages that may be awarded for violations of this law. Some of our investors have informed us that they will not purchase, finance or securitize residential mortgage loans secured by real property located in Montgomery County after the effective date of the ordinance. A trade association has filed a lawsuit in Maryland state court seeking to enjoin Montgomery County from enforcing the ordinance. A Maryland court has enjoined Montgomery County for enforcing the ordinance until July 6, 2006. We originate all conforming and non-conforming loans through FMC, which is licensed (or exempt from licensing) to originate residential mortgages in all states in which it conducts business and in which a license is required. FMC is licensed or exempt from licensing requirements to originate residential mortgages in the District of Columbia and 49 of the states in the United States, although we may not conduct business in all states. With respect to our portfolio of non-conforming loans held for investment, FMC closes the loans in its own name using funds advanced by FIC, with a simultaneous transfer of the loans to FIC. FMC services the loans for a fee until transferred to FIC’s sub-servicer. FIC is licensed or exempt from licensing requirements to fund residential mortgage loans or acquire closed residential mortgage loans in all states in which it conducts business and in which a license is required. Our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations can lead to: · legal and regulatory liability, including potential monetary penalties; · loss of state licenses (or exemption there from) or other approved status required for continued lending and servicing operations; · legal defenses causing delay or otherwise adversely affecting the servicer’s ability to enforce loans, or giving the borrower the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; · demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; · class action lawsuits; and · administrative enforcement actions. Some states in which we operate may impose regulatory requirements for financial disclosure on our officers and directors and parties holding in excess of 5%, of our outstanding shares of stock. If any officer, director or person holding in excess of 5% of our outstanding shares of stock fails to meet or refuses to comply with a state’s applicable regulatory requirements for mortgage lending, we could lose our license or application exemption therefrom to conduct business in that state. If we lost our license or application exemption therefrom to conduct business in a state for this or any other reason, and we were unable to increase our mortgage originations in other states, our residential mortgage originations will decrease, reducing our profits on loans sold and our net interest income from retained loans. 43 New legislation, including legislation relating to “high cost” loans, may restrict our ability to make loans, negatively affecting our revenues. In recent years, federal and many state and local laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices, often referred to as “predatory” lending practices that are considered to be abusive. Many of these laws, rules and regulations restrict commonly accepted lending activities and impose additional costly and burdensome compliance requirements. These laws, rules and regulations impose restrictions on loans on which various points and fees or the annual percentage rate, or APR, meets or exceeds specified thresholds. Some of these restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten or originated. In addition, an increasing number of these laws, rules and regulations seek to impose liability for violations on purchasers of loans, regardless of whether a purchaser knew of, or participated in, the violation. Accordingly, the companies that buy our loans or provide financing for our loan originations may not want, and are not contractually required, to buy or finance any loans subject to these types of laws, rules and regulations. The continued enactment of these laws, rules and regulations may prevent us from making some loans and may cause us to reduce the APR or the points and fees on loans that we do make. In addition, the difficulty of managing the compliance risks presented by these laws, rules and regulations may decrease the availability of warehouse financing and the overall demand for non-conforming loans. These laws, rules and regulations have increased our cost of doing business, as we have been required to develop systems and procedures and invest in software to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements. In addition, many of these state laws, rules and regulations are not applicable to the mortgage operations of national banks, or other financial institutions chartered by the federal government, thereby giving the mortgage operations of these institutions a competitive advantage over us. The federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act (HOEPA) identifies a category of mortgage loans as “high cost” and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the APR exceed specified levels. Liability for violations of applicable law with regard to loans subject to HOEPA would extend not only to us, but to the purchasers of our loans as well. Our policy is to not make loans that are subject to HOEPA. If we inadvertently make a loan subject to HOEPA or if we decide to relax our restrictions on loans subject to HOEPA, we will be subject to greater risks for non-compliance with HOEPA and other applicable laws, including demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from our lenders and loan purchasers, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions. Our policy is to avoid originating loans that are designated as “high cost” by the federal HOEPA law and the various state and local laws, rules and regulations. Although these laws, rules and regulations do not prohibit us from making a “high cost” loan that is covered by these laws, if we do, we are subject to certain additional requirements that, although different from state to state, generally include restrictions on prepayment fees, balloon payments and negative amortization, prohibitions against interest rate increases as a result of default, a decreased ability to accept a loan with a less favorable risk grade or accepting a loan at a higher cost, caps on finance points and fees, and prohibitions against refinancing and “flipping” of loans (a practice involving repeatedly refinancing loans so that the borrower’s equity is depleted by the lender’s fees and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans). Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, at the state and local levels that attempt to combat abusive lending. Many of these laws are similar to HOEPA in that they impose certain restrictions on loans on which certain points and fees or the APR exceeds specified thresholds. 44 We may decide to make a loan that is covered by one of these laws, rules or regulations only if, in our judgment, the loan is made in accordance with our strict legal compliance standards and without undue risk relative to litigation or to the enforcement of the loan according to its terms. If we decide to relax our self-imposed restrictions on originating loans subject to these laws, rules and regulations, we will be subject to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance with the laws, rules and regulations, including demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from the parties to whom we broker or sell loans, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages, and administrative enforcement actions. Any of the foregoing could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulation AB may create additional liabilities, costs and restrictions for our business. Effective January 1, 2006, Regulation AB, which covers registration, disclosure, communications, and reporting requirements for asset-backed securities, became effective. The new rules contain several new disclosure requirements, including requirements to provide historical financial data with respect to either prior securitized pools of the same asset class or prior originations and information with respect to the background, experience and roles of the various transaction parties, including those involved in the origination, sale or servicing of the loans in the securitized pool. Moreover, annual assessments of compliance with enhanced servicing criteria by servicers and attestation reports from an independent accounting firm must be obtained with respect to securitized pools of our mortgage loans. As we comply with Regulation AB, our costs of doing business may increase as we develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements in our securitizations or our loan sales. In connection with our issuance of mortgage-backed securities, we face liability either directly or indirectly through the indemnification provisions of the transaction documents related to a securitization of our non-conforming loans in our portfolio if we fail to provide the information required by Regulation AB. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the new reporting requirements for asset-backed securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may result in the loss of eligibility to register our asset-backed securities on Form S-3, which would increase the costs of and limit our access to the public asset-backed securities market. Also, our loan sale agreements with third parties for the loans that we do not retain in our portfolio may require us to provide certain information with respect to ourselves and historical information with respect to the performance of our mortgage loans to such purchasers. Our failure to provide this information with respect to any of our mortgage loan products may result in a breach of a contractual obligation for which we provide an indemnification. In addition, if we are not able to provide such information, the number of potential purchasers of our mortgage loans may be limited or the transaction sizes of sales of our mortgage loans may be limited, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the price we receive for our mortgage loans. We may become involved in class action lawsuits and regulatory actions that may materially effect us. Class action lawsuits and regulatory actions alleging improper marketing practices, abusive loan terms and fees, disclosure violations, improper yield spread premiums and other matters are risks faced by all mortgage originators, and particularly subprime lenders. These legal proceedings and regulatory actions can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, there can be no assurance that the results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, we are a defendant in a purported class action pending in Illinois alleging that we violated the firm offer of credit guidelines during one of our mail marketing campaigns in or around April 2005. Statutory damages under the statute cited in the complaint range from $100 to $1,000 per mailing in the event that the violation is deemed willful. This action is in the early stages of litigation and, accordingly, it is difficult to predict the outcome or resolution of this matter or the timing 45 for its resolution. We expect to incur defense costs and other expenses in connection with this action, and we cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of this action will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matters. We believe we have meritorious defenses to the actions and intend to defend against them vigorously; however, an adverse judgment in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title, which may harm our liquidity and results of operations. In the course of our business we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and, if we take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. From January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2005, we foreclosed on 0.16% of the loans we funded during that period. In those circumstances, we may be liable to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation or clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial and may harm our liquidity and results of operations. Risks Related to our Restatement of our Financial Statements We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of the restatement of our financial statements. In this Form 10-K, we have restated our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and for each of the first three quarters of 2005 to correct an error in the accounting for income taxes related to the sale of loans in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the second quarter of 2005 by Fieldstone Mortgage, our taxable REIT subsidiary, to Fieldstone Investment Corporation (Fieldstone), which operates as a REIT. We had previously restated our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004 to eliminate cash flow hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate swap transactions entered into during those periods. We determined that our hedge documentation for our interest rate swaps was not sufficient to qualify for cash flow hedge accounting under Statement No. 133. Management recommended and the Audit Committee approved the restatement to eliminate cash flow hedge accounting and to reclassify the effective portion of the mark to market of the changes in fair market value of our interest rate swaps in place during the affected periods from accumulated other comprehensive income into current period earnings. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements could expose us to legal and regulatory risk. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from our stockholders, creditors or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. 46 Our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures may not be adequate to ensure that we are able to report accurately our financial results, and we have identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in disclosure controls and procedures and in internal control over financial reporting that we may not be able to mitigate or entirely eliminate. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. This effort includes evaluating and documenting the design of and testing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. During this process, we may identify deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that may require remediation. In conjunction with the audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we have identified, and our auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have reported to our Audit Committee a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, as discussed in more detail in Item 9A “Controls and Procedures,” which material weakness resulted in the restatement of the Company’s financial statements. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In conjunction with the audit of our financial statements as of December 31, 2004, our former independent auditors, KPMG, had also reported several significant deficiencies to our Audit Committee, including a significant deficiency related to our previous restatement of our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003 to eliminate the use of cash flow hedge accounting for our interest rate swap transactions. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report external financial data reliably and in accordance with GAAP, such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. If we are unable to remediate these significant deficiencies, it could materially impair our ability to implement effective internal control over financial reporting. Management is in the process of developing and implementing additional remediation plans addressing the material weakness and the significant deficiencies. There is no assurance that these remediation plans will be entirely effective in eliminating or avoiding future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies. Any failure to remediate significant deficiencies or material weaknesses or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to legal and regulatory action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure Our organizational documents contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids that our stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our Board of Directors. These provisions include the following: · There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability in our charter. In order to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares (in certain cases taking into account options to acquire shares) may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of a taxable year and our shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. To assist us in satisfying these tests, subject to some 47 exceptions, our charter generally prohibits any stockholder from actually or constructively owning more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This restriction may: · discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; or · compel a shareholder who had acquired more than 9.8% of our shares to dispose of the additional shares and, as a result, to forfeit the benefits of owning the additional shares. Any acquisition of our common stock in violation of these ownership restrictions will be void ab initio or will result in automatic transfers of our common stock to a charitable trust, which will be responsible for selling the common stock to permitted transferees and distributing at least a portion of the proceeds to the prohibited transferees. · Our charter permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, having preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our Board. Our Board could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price. · Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. These provisions include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to: · accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation; · authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, any stockholder rights plan; · make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act; or · act or fail to act solely because of the effect that the act or failure to act might have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law, the act of the directors of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. Any one or more of these provisions, singularly or together, may have an antitakeover effect that discourages potential acquisition bids that our shareholders may consider favorable. 48 Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith and in a manner that he or she reasonably believes is in the best interests of the corporation and its stockholders and in a manner that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter, in the case of directors and officers, requires us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the full extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Tax Risks We may be unable to comply with the requirements applicable to REITs, or compliance with these requirements could adversely affect our financial condition. Commencing with our short taxable year ended December 31, 2003, which began on November 13, 2003, we believe that we have qualified as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. The determination that we qualify as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our annual gross income must come from real estate sources, including mortgages on real property, and 95% of our annual gross income must come from real estate sources and other sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws, mainly interest and dividends. We are subject to various limitations on our ownership of investments, including a limitation that the fair market value of our investment in our taxable REIT subsidiary, Fieldstone Mortgage, together with any other investments in taxable REIT subsidiaries, cannot exceed more than 20% of our total assets at the close of any quarter (subject to a 30-day “cure” period following the close of each quarter). Fieldstone Mortgage conducts substantial loan origination and servicing activities and will accumulate some or all of the income from those activities. As of December 31, 2005, the estimated fair market value of our investment in Fieldstone Mortgage was 3.3% of our total assets. In addition to this limitation, at least 75% of our assets at the close of any quarter (subject to the 30-day “cure” period) must be qualified real estate assets, government securities and cash and cash items. Certain other quarterly asset ownership requirements also apply. Although we believe that we currently satisfy all of the asset ownership requirements, we cannot provide assurance that the IRS will agree with this determination. The need to comply with the income and asset ownership requirements applicable to REITs may cause us to acquire other assets that are qualified real estate assets for purposes of these requirements (for example, interests in other mortgage loan portfolios) but that are not part of our overall business strategy and might not otherwise be the best investment alternative for us. There would be adverse consequences to us and our stockholders if we failed to qualify as a REIT. The requirements for qualification as a REIT are highly technical and complex and even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Moreover, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect, possibly retroactively, our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT in any taxable year and the relief provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code do not apply, among other things: · we will have to pay federal, state and local tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates because our distributions will not be deductible by us; · we will not be required to make any distributions to our stockholders; 49 · our securitizations may be subject to an entity level tax, and the cash flows from these securitizations may be diverted to accelerate the repayment of the underlying mortgage-backed securities; · any distributions we make to our stockholders will be taxable to them as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although, subject to limitations of the Internal Revenue Code, corporate distributees may be eligible for the dividends received deduction with respect to these distributions, and individual distributees may be eligible for the capital gains tax rate of 15% or less on such dividends; and · we generally will be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which our REIT status is lost. In addition to the consequences listed above, the tax liability resulting from our failure to qualify as a REIT: · would substantially reduce our earnings and our cash available to pay distributions (and, consequently, your yield on your investment in our common stock); · might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps that could negatively affect our operating results; and · could affect the trading price of our common stock. Certain provisions under the Internal Revenue Cost could provide relief in the event we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. There can be no assurance, however, that these relief provisions would apply to a failure by us to qualify as a REIT since their application would depend upon the factual circumstances for such a failure. If these relief provisions are inapplicable to a particular set of circumstances which otherwise would disqualify us as a REIT, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Even if these relief provisions apply, we would be subject to a penalty tax of at least $50,000 for each disqualifying event in most cases. Despite our REIT status, we remain subject to various taxes, including substantial contingent tax liabilities. Similar provisions of the Internal Revenue Code apply to REITs and to S corporations that acquire any assets from a non-REIT C corporation in a carry-over basis transaction. These provisions permit the REIT or S corporation, as applicable, to avoid the recognition of gain and the imposition of corporate level tax with respect to a built-in gain asset acquired in a carry-over basis transaction from a non-REIT C corporation unless and until the REIT or S corporation disposes of that built-in gain asset during the ten-year period following its acquisition. At the time of the disposition, the REIT or S corporation would recognize and be subject to tax at the highest regular corporate rate on the “built-in gain.” Built-in gain is the amount by which an asset’s fair market value exceeds its adjusted tax basis at the time the REIT or S corporation acquires the asset. On January 1, 2003, the effective date of the S election made by our predecessor, Fieldstone Holdings, a material amount of “franchise value” existed in our business in excess of its book value, which could give rise to a tax liability pursuant to the built-in gain rules described above on a sale of the business prior to December 31, 2012. We inherited the potential tax liability relating to any built-in gain of Fieldstone Holdings as a result of our merger with Fieldstone Holdings on November 14, 2003. Accordingly, if we sell our business or substantially all of our assets during the ten-year period ending December 31, 2012, we will be subject to regular corporate tax on some amount of gain. The total amount of gain on which we can be taxed is limited to the excess of the aggregate fair market value of our assets on January 1, 2003, the effective time of Fieldstone Holdings’ S election, over the adjusted tax bases of those assets at that time. As 50 this tax would be significant, we intend to manage our affairs in a manner that takes into account the potential incurrence of this tax, which may result in our seeking to avoid any taxable disposition of our business or substantially all of our assets prior to January 1, 2013, even if such a transaction might otherwise be in our best interests if this tax were not to apply. None of the loan sales made by Fieldstone Holdings since January 1, 2003 and prior to our merger, triggered any built-in gains tax because these loans were held for sale, and Fieldstone Holdings was required to use “mark-to-market” accounting for its tax accounting. Consequently, no gain was attributable to those loans for tax purposes at the time of the S election. In addition, notwithstanding our status as a REIT, we remain subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. We may be subject to some state and local income taxes because not all states and localities treat REITs in the same manner that they are treated for federal income tax purposes. In addition, FMC and our other TRSs are subject to regular federal, state and local income tax on all of their income. We may not qualify as a REIT if we failed to distribute by the close of 2003 any undistributed earnings and profits that were attributable to a non-REIT C corporation taxable year. To qualify as a REIT, at the end of any taxable year, we cannot have any undistributed or retained earnings and profits that are attributable to a non-REIT C corporation taxable year (non-REIT C corporation E&P). For certain years prior to January 1, 2003, our predecessor, Fieldstone Holdings, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Fieldstone Mortgage, were taxable as C corporations for federal income tax purposes. Effective January 1, 2003, Fieldstone Holdings elected to be treated as an S corporation, and Fieldstone Mortgage became a “qualified subchapter S subsidiary” of Fieldstone Holdings that was disregarded as separate from Fieldstone Holdings. As of the effective date of Fieldstone Holdings’ S election, Fieldstone Holdings had non-REIT C corporation E&P. We commissioned a national accounting firm to verify our calculation of this E&P. Prior to the merger with Fieldstone Investment, Fieldstone Holdings made distributions of non-REIT C corporation E&P in 2003 to its shareholders in an amount greater than the amount of non-REIT C corporation E&P as determined by our verified calculations. To the extent, however, that the actual non-REIT C corporation E&P of Fieldstone Holdings exceeded the amount of distributions, we succeeded to that excess non-REIT C corporation E&P and had until December 31, 2003, the close of our first taxable year as a REIT, to distribute it. We believe that, as of the close of 2003, we had no undistributed non-REIT C corporation E&P based on our calculations and the review of those calculations by a national accounting firm. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not examine our tax returns from our years as a C corporation and propose adjustments to increase our taxable income from those years. If the IRS determines that we failed to distribute all of our non-REIT C corporation E&P by the close of 2003, although the law on this issue is not entirely clear, we may avoid being disqualified as a REIT for each taxable year during which we had non-REIT C corporation E&P, provided that we satisfy certain “deficiency dividend” procedures. Our REIT shareholders would be subject to tax on the dividends at the applicable ordinary income tax rates even though these dividends would be, as a practical matter, a return of a portion of the capital invested in us. For individuals, these distributions would be eligible for the lower capital gains rates. Due to the inherently factual nature of the determination of our earnings and profits, and given the inability of counsel to opine on this issue, there is a risk that the IRS could succeed in challenging our determination that we do not have any undistributed non-REIT C corporation E&P, in which event we either could fail to qualify as a REIT or could be required to satisfy the “deficiency dividend” procedures referenced above. 51 The tax imposed on REITs for “prohibited transactions” limits our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing our loans that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held for sale, other than foreclosure property, but including any mortgage loans held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell a loan or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of inventory for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures used for our securitization transactions even though these sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. In addition, this prohibition may limit our ability to restructure our portfolio of mortgage loans from time to time even if we believe it would be in our best interest to do so. However, loan sales by Fieldstone Mortgage are not subject to this prohibited transaction tax because Fieldstone Mortgage has elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary, although the net income recognized by Fieldstone Mortgage from any sales is subject to tax at regular federal and state corporate rates. We and some of our stockholders could have federal income tax liability if we recognize any “excess inclusion income.” If we own a residual interest in either a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC, or taxable mortgage pool, we will be required to allocate excess inclusion income among our stockholders to the extent that such amounts exceed our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that a stockholder is allocated a portion of our excess inclusion income, such excess inclusion income (i) would not be allowed to be offset by any net operating losses otherwise available to the stockholder, (ii) would be subject to tax as unrelated business taxable income in the hands of most types of stockholders that are otherwise generally exempt from federal income tax, and (iii) with respect to our foreign stockholders, would be subject to federal withholding tax at the maximum rate (30%), with such stockholders generally being ineligible for a reduction or elimination of such tax under an applicable income tax treaty. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, to the extent that we allocate any excess inclusion income to certain “disqualified stockholders” that are not subject to federal income taxation, we would be subject to tax on such excess inclusion income at the highest tax rate. Approximately 68% and 85% of our 2004 and 2005 dividends, respectively, constituted excess inclusion income. Tax-exempt investors, non-U.S. stockholders and stockholders with net operating losses should carefully consider the tax consequences described above and are urged to consult their tax advisors in connection with their decision to invest in our shares of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 