Risk Factors—Other Risks Related to Our Business." Export Sales Export sales from the U.S. during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $351.2 million, $353.9 million and $209.2 million, respectively. Our primary markets for export sales are Latin America and Canada. Backlog and Returns Backlog in the communications cable segment typically consists of two to three weeks of sales depending on seasonal and overall industry demand issues. Certain of our magnet wire specialty products, such as CTC, have relatively high order backlogs due to the specialized nature of the product. Our backlog for CTC orders at December 31, 2007 was approximately $80 million. Additionally, certain of our magnet wire customers may fix the price of the copper component of future unspecified magnet wire product purchases from us in which case the commitment to purchase the copper is generally non-cancelable. See "—Summary of Certain Customer Agreements." Our other product lines have no significant order backlog because we follow the industry practice of stocking finished goods to meet customer demand on a just-in-time basis. We believe that the ability to fill orders in a timely fashion is a competitive factor in the markets in which we operate. Historically, sales returns have not had a material adverse effect on results of operations. Competition The market for wire and cable products and copper rod is highly competitive. Each of our businesses competes with at least one major competitor. However, due to the diversity of our product lines as a whole, no major single competitor competes with us across the entire spectrum of our product lines. Many of our products are made to industry specifications and, therefore, may be interchangeable with competitors' products. We are subject to competition in many markets on the basis of price, delivery time, customer service and our ability to meet specialty needs. We believe we enjoy strong customer relations resulting from our long participation in the industry, emphasis on customer service, commitment to quality control, reliability and substantial production resources. 13 Research and Development In North America, we operate research and development facilities in Kennesaw, Georgia and Fort Wayne, Indiana. The Kennesaw facility's efforts primarily address the needs of the communications cable segment's premises product lines and fiber optic cable development. At the Fort Wayne facility, our metallurgical and chemical labs are focused on the development of magnet wire metal properties and processing qualities, as well as enhancement of enamels and their application in the magnet wire manufacturing process. Our European magnet wire and distribution segment conducts research and development activities at its Chauny and Meyzieu facilities primarily related to the development and processing of enamels. Aggregate research and development expenses during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $5.4 million, $5.5 million and $4.6 million, respectively. Although we hold certain trademarks, licenses and patents, none is considered to be material to our business. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 4,500 employees. Approximately 560 of our U.S. employees are represented by unions, all of which work in our North American magnet wire and distribution and copper rod segments. U.S. collective bargaining agreements expire at various times in 2009 and 2010. We consider relations with our employees to be satisfactory. Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, foreign, state and local environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate facilities governing, among other things, emissions into the air, discharges to water, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination both on-site at past and current facilities and at off-site disposal locations. We do not believe that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will have a material effect on our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position. A liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when it is considered probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued amounts with respect to environmental matters that we believe were adequate at December 31, 2007. These accruals are not material to our operations or financial position and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. Other Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.superioressex.com under the "Investor Relations—Financial Reports" caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). You may also request a copy of these filings, without charge, by writing Ms. Peggy Tharp, Director of Investor Relations, at Superior Essex Inc., 150 Interstate North Parkway, Atlanta, GA, 30339. In Part III of this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from our Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareowners. We expect to file that Proxy Statement with the SEC within 120 days of December 31, 2007, and we will promptly make it available on our website. Please refer to the Proxy Statement when it is available. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this Form 10-K, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website are forward- 14 looking statements. Senior officers also may make verbal statements to analysts, investors, regulators, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, such as statements in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and elsewhere regarding our future operations, prospects, product demand, strategies, investments, financial condition (including liquidity and capital resources), economic performance (including growth and earnings), benefits expected as a result of our projected growth, and industry conditions. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements using words such as "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "can," "could," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "future," "goal," "indicate," "intend," "may," "outlook," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "seek," "should," "target," "will," "would," and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, our current expectations and assumptions, and our operating plans. While we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and inherent uncertainties, as well as potentially inaccurate expectations and assumptions, and there are numerous factors—many beyond our control—that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this Form 10-K, generally because we do not perceive them to be material, that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent circumstances or events except as required by federal securities laws. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K. This Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements. Factors that may cause these differences include those discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Risks to Our Business Related to Copper Copper Supply Shortages or disruptions in the availability of copper could have a material adverse effect on our business. Copper is the primary raw material we use in the manufacture of our products. In 2007, we purchased almost 600 million pounds of copper. Foreign economies have been consuming an increasing proportion of worldwide copper production. This and other macro-economic factors, together with labor and other business interruptions experienced by certain copper suppliers, have contributed to periodic shortages of supply of copper, and such shortages may increase in the future. Furthermore, there are a limited number of copper suppliers. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our copper suppliers or if there are any business interruptions at our copper suppliers, we may not have access to a sufficient supply of copper. Although we have not experienced any shortages during recent years that have had a significant impact on our operations, no assurance can be given that we will be able to procure adequate supplies of copper and copper rod to meet our future production needs and customer demand, which could result in a material loss of customers and revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, supply shortages or disruptions or the loss of suppliers may cause us to procure our copper rod from less cost effective sources and may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations. 15 Copper Pricing A majority of our sales are pursuant to customer arrangements which provide for adjustments in pricing to take into account changes in the cost of copper. See "Business—Summary of Certain Customer Agreements." Over the past three years the spot price of copper has escalated rapidly and has been subject to significant volatility. The average daily, high and low COMEX and LME spot prices per pound of copper for the periods indicated are summarized as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 COMEX: Average $ 3.23 $ 3.10 $ 1.68 High 3.75 4.08 2.28 Low 2.40 2.13 1.39 LME: Average 3.23 3.05 1.67 High 3.77 3.99 2.11 Low 2.37 2.06 1.39 Increases, decreases and fluctuations in copper prices may have material adverse effects on our business, including those described below: We may be unable to adequately hedge risks related to volatility, including declines, in copper pricing, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Approximately half of our 2007 communications cable segment sales were to telecommunications company customers pursuant to multi-year agreements under which the price of the copper component of our communications cable products is fixed for each quarter based on a prior three-month average of copper prices, as described above under "Business—Summary of Certain Customer Agreements." As a result, the price of the copper component of our product billed to customers may be different than the current price of copper at the time of sale and we may not be able to match the price billed with the copper cost component of the inventory shipped. To minimize this risk, we forward price copper purchases with our suppliers based on forecasted demand. Volatility in the price of copper, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, if copper prices decline rapidly, actual demand may be less than forecasted demand as customers may reduce or delay purchases in anticipation of future contractual sales price reductions. As a result, the cost of inventory, including the cost of copper acquired under forward purchase agreements, may exceed the current or expected selling price of the product and may result in reduced profitability or even operating losses. In addition, rapid increases in copper prices can impact operating results in the short term if actual demand exceeds forecasted demand because customers may accelerate orders in advance of expected future contractual sales price increases to take advantage of existing copper prices. In this case, we may have to utilize higher cost inventory or purchase copper at current prices to fulfill orders priced at lower prior period copper prices which may result in reduced profitability or operating losses. Certain of our North American, European and Asia/Pacific magnet wire business customers frequently fix the copper cost component of future committed purchases. See "Business—Summary of Certain Customer Agreements." We forward price copper purchases or utilize COMEX, LME or SHME fixed price futures contracts to minimize the commodity price risk associated with these sales. If copper prices decline rapidly, the risk that our customers may delay or default on their committed purchases may increase. As a result we may incur losses on our futures contracts or be required to take delivery of copper inventory at prices in excess of then-current copper prices. 16 In addition to the above, we maintain finished goods inventories, particularly with respect to our distribution customers, to meet near term expected demand. Pricing for the sale of these inventories is generally based on current copper prices or the average COMEX or LME price for the prior month. Rapid declines in the price of copper may result in our inventories being carried at costs in excess of net realizable value and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in copper prices may reduce customer demand for our products which may have a material adverse effect on our business. As our product prices increase due to rises in copper prices, customers, particularly in our communications cable business, may more quickly exceed their capital budgets for a particular period and reduce the funds available for the purchase of our products. We believe our communications cable segment sales were adversely impacted in the fourth quarter of 2006 due to budgetary constraints caused by high copper prices. Additionally, as pricing for our copper-based products increases, alternative products, such as fiber optic cable in our communications business and aluminum in our magnet wire business, may become more price competitive with our copper-based products and demand for such products may be materially adversely affected as described below under "—Other Risks Relating to Our Business." Increases in copper prices will increase our need for working capital. As the price of copper increases, our working capital requirements increase. We estimate that each $1 change in the cost of copper has a $70 to $80 million impact on our working capital. Increases in our working capital requirements can materially adversely impact our results of operations, our cash flow and our available liquidity to fund other business needs. Furthermore, there is no assurance we would be able to finance additional working capital requirements or finance such working capital requirements on favorable terms. If we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" below. Increases in copper prices may increase credit and default risk with respect to our customers. Increases in the price of our products as copper prices rise may place additional demands on the working capital and liquidity needs of our customers. Accordingly, our customers' cash flow may be negatively impacted which may have an adverse effect on the timing and amount of payment of our accounts receivable. Other Risks Related to Our Business Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the strength of the economies in the geographic markets that we serve, and any significant weakening in one or more of these markets could reduce the demand for our products. Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products, systems or networks or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general business, economic and industry conditions, including how much our customers and end-users spend on new residential and commercial construction, maintaining or reconfiguring their communications network, information technology, motors, automobiles and automotive components, appliances, heating, ventilation and cooling ("HVAC") systems and power transmission and distribution infrastructures. Demand for our products was negatively impacted during 2007 due to weakness in the U.S. economy, particularly the residential construction market, and to a lesser extent the European economy. If the U.S., European or other economies were to weaken further, demand for 17 our products may continue to decline. This could cause a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations. The increased use of fiber optic cable in the "local loop" may reduce the market for copper OSP products. Through our communications cable segment, we are the largest supplier, based on sales, of copper OSP cables used by the RBOCs and other telephone companies in the local loop portion of the telecommunications infrastructure. Copper OSP is the communications cable segment's largest product group. However, fiber optic cable, which provides improved bandwidth and transmission speeds as compared to copper cable, has been increasingly deployed in the local exchange network over the past several years. Certain RBOCs have and are continuing to significantly increase the use of fiber optic cable further downstream in their networks, in some cases all the way to the premises, resulting in decreased demand for our copper OSP products. Further increases in the rate of use of fiber optic products in these applications would further decrease the demand for our copper OSP cable and result in a continued decline in our sales of copper OSP cable, which would adversely impact our business, revenues and results of operations. Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive. Technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, a significant decrease in the cost and complexity of installation of fiber optic systems or increase in the cost of copper-based systems could make fiber optic systems superior on a price performance basis to copper communications systems and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The superior technological characteristics of fiber optic cable have caused companies increasingly to deploy it in the local loop. Also, competitive alternatives to traditional telephone service, such as wireless and cable telephony and VoIP services, have had a negative impact on the demand for copper OSP wire and cable, and use of these alternatives is expected to increase. Although we sell fiber optic cable and components and cable that is used in certain wireless applications, if fiber optic systems or wireless technology were to significantly erode the markets for copper-based communications systems, our sales of fiber optic cable and products for wireless applications would likely not be sufficient to offset any decrease in sales or profitability of other products that may occur. Continued or accelerated declines in access lines and spending reductions by the telephone industry could adversely affect our business. Our largest customers for the communications cable segment are the RBOCs and major independent telephone operating or holding companies. Approximately 66%, 67% and 68%, respectively, of the 2007, 2006 and 2005 sales of our communications cable segment are attributable to these customers. Competitive alternatives, such as wireless and cable telephony, digital subscriber lines or "DSL", VoIP services and cable modems have resulted in a loss of access lines and subscribers by the major telephone operating companies. Furthermore, the demand for access lines is impacted by new housing starts. A continued or accelerated decline in access lines resulting from these factors could result in reductions in capital spending by the telephone industry and in the demand for our communications cable products which would adversely impact our business, revenues and results of operations. Our inability to compete with other manufacturers in the wire and cable industry could harm our business. The market for wire and cable products is highly competitive. Each of our businesses competes with at least one major competitor. Many of our products are made to industry specifications and, 18 therefore, may be interchangeable with competitors' products. We are subject to competition on the basis of price, delivery time, customer service and our ability to meet specialty needs. Some of our competitors are larger and may have greater resources, financial and otherwise, than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. Our inability to maintain our relationships with key customers and distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our businesses are highly competitive. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with key customers and distributors, we may lose sales, particularly as existing contracts expire or are re-bid. Losses of sales under existing customer contracts, if not replaced by expanding other existing relationships or new relationships, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our customer base in our communications cable and copper rod segments is highly concentrated, and a loss of a major customer could substantially impact the financial performance of these segments. Our customer base for our communications cable and copper rod segments is highly concentrated, and, therefore, a limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of our net sales in any year in those segments. The loss of or reduced demand for products or related services from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations. Consolidation among our customers could result in our losing a customer or experiencing a slowdown as integration takes place. Industries in which customers in certain of our product segments participate have experienced significant consolidation, in particular the telecommunications industry. Consolidation may impact our business as our customers focus on integrating their operations. After a consolidation occurs, customers may scale back their purchases while the integration is ongoing and they reevaluate their supply chain. Further, following consolidation, there can be no assurance that we will continue to supply products to the surviving company. Continued consolidation can provide customers with greater purchasing power and negotiating leverage. Fluctuations in the supply of certain non-copper raw materials and energy could harm our business. In addition to copper, raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products include aluminum, steel, optical fibers, plastics, such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride, and various chemicals and chemical compounds used in the production of enamels. Additionally, natural gas is a key energy source used in the manufacture of magnet wire and copper rod. The markets and availability of these raw materials are subject to fluctuation and there can be no assurance that we will be able to procure adequate supplies of our essential raw materials to meet our future needs or that we can increase prices for our products in amounts sufficient to offset any increases in the costs of these raw materials. We produce enamel formulated for our internal use in our Ft. Wayne, Indiana and Meyzieu, France facilities. If there is a disruption in the supply of internally produced enamels, we may not be able to source our required enamel formulations from external suppliers on a timely basis sufficient to meet immediate customer orders. Migration of magnet wire demand to China may adversely affect our business. Our business may suffer due to the migration of magnet wire demand to China. Our magnet wire and distribution segments' principal product is magnet wire, which is used primarily in motors for industrial, automotive, appliance and other applications. Several of our major magnet wire customers 19 have shifted, or have plans to shift, certain levels of product manufacturing to China. While we recently completed construction of a magnet wire manufacturing facility in China and acquired an 80% ownership in an existing Chinese magnet wire business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in China and /or offset any loss of business that may result from declining demand for our products in North America and Europe due to this shift of customer requirements to China. Our business is subject to the economic, political and other risks of maintaining facilities and selling products in foreign countries. During the year ended December 31, 2007, a significant portion of our sales were in markets outside North America. Our financial results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, or by enactment of exchange controls or foreign government or regulatory restrictions on the transfer of funds. In addition, our international manufacturing and sales are subject to other risks inherent in operating abroad, including,the difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, increased costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions, restrictive actions by foreign governments, the impact of the laws of the U.S. and other countries in which we do business affecting trade, foreign investments and loans. Further, international operations and sales subject us to increased risks and increased costs related to compliance with requirements of U.S. laws, including import and export laws and the anti-corruption laws. While we maintain a business conduct program to prevent, deter and detect violations of law in the conduct of business throughout the world, a risk remains that employees will engage in activities that violate laws or our corporate policies, particularly in countries where employees were not previously accustomed to operating under similar standards. We are increasing our operations in China, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in China. We recently completed initial construction and commenced operation of a wholly-owned "greenfield" magnet wire manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China and acquired a magnet wire facility in Tianjin, China. Our business strategy may involve continued expansion in China. We face all the risks inherent in operating in an emerging market like China where we have not previously operated a manufacturing facility. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Despite this transition, the Chinese government continues to own significant production assets and exercises significant control over economic growth. Our China-based activities are subject to greater political, legal and economic risks than those faced by other operations, including such risks as those arising from: •unexpected legal, regulatory or governmental requirements or approvals, such as those related to taxation, lending, import and tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property and other matters, which laws and regulations remain less developed than in other countries in which we operate; •unexpected increases in taxes, tariffs and other assessments and changes that may adversely affect existing tax benefits; •uncertainty regarding the enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations; •operating in a market with a less developed supply chain, transportation and distribution infrastructure; •unfavorable political or economic factors; •our ability to effectively compete in an emerging market; 20 •difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel; and •managing international operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in operating or expanding our operations in China. Our business strategy may include further acquisitions. We have made a number of acquisitions over the past few years and our continued ability to implement our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify, finance and complete further acquisitions. Market conditions and other factors may make attractive acquisitions unavailable or the cost of acquiring suitable businesses may become too expensive. At the time an acquisition opportunity presents itself, internal and external conditions, such as our borrowing capacity or the availability of alternative financing, may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete an acquisition. Our inability to identify and complete additional acquisitions could have an adverse affect on our future growth. If we are able to identify and consummate acquisitions, there are significant challenges to integrating an acquired operation, which requires substantial management, financial and other resources and may pose risks to production, customer service and market share of existing operations. There can be no assurance that the expected benefits of acquisitions will be realized. Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business to generate future cash flow. Our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2007 was $353.2 million. We may also incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of our common stock. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; •increase the amount of interest expense that we have to pay, because we increase the principal amount or because some of our borrowings (approximately $73.5 million outstanding as of December 31, 2007) are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; •increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; or •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. We may be unable to meet our covenant obligations under our senior secured revolving credit facility which could adversely affect our business. Our operations depend on the availability and cost of working capital financing and may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost of such financing. Our senior secured revolving credit facility contains covenants that we may not be able to meet. If we cannot meet these covenants, events of default would arise, which could result in payment of the applicable indebtedness being accelerated and a cross default to our other indebtedness. In addition, if we require working capital greater than that provided by our senior secured revolving credit facility, we may be required either to (1) seek to increase the availability under the senior secured revolving credit facility, (2) obtain other 21 sources of financing or (3) reduce our operations. There can be no assurance that any amendment of our senior secured revolving credit facility or replacement financing would be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a new credit facility with acceptable terms upon expiration of our senior secured revolving credit facility. We may be unable to raise additional capital to meet capital expenditure needs if our operations do not generate sufficient funds to do so. Our business is expected to have continuing capital expenditure needs. While we anticipate that our operations will generate sufficient funds to meet our capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future, our ability to gain access to additional capital, if needed, cannot be assured. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, our business, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit plans may require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. Funding for the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor is based upon the funded status of the plans and a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and discount rate. Benefit accruals under all of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are frozen. Due to declining returns in the investment portfolio of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans in recent years, our funded U.S. defined benefit plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2007 by approximately $13.5 million, based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 87. Our required cash contributions for 2008 for our U.S. defined benefit plans are expected to be approximately $3.7 million. In the event that actual returns differ negatively from the actuarial assumptions, the funded status of our defined benefit plans may change and any such deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and against earnings and increase our required cash contributions. If we are unable to retain senior management, our business operations could be adversely affected. Our success and future prospects depend on the continued contributions of our senior management. There can be no assurances that we would be able to find qualified replacements for these individuals if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team, and the process of integrating their replacements, could severely disrupt our operations. Failure to negotiate extensions of our labor agreements as they expire may result in a disruption of our operations. Substantially all of the hourly employees in our U.S., Canadian, and Mexican magnet wire facilities are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements, which usually have a multi-year duration and are separate by location. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning such issues will be successfully concluded. A protracted work stoppage could result in a disruption of our operations which could adversely affect our ability to deliver certain products and our results of operations. 22 The designation of our non-U.S. subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries under our 9% note indenture and their exclusion as subsidiaries under our credit agreement may have an adverse impact on our operations. In order to assure continued compliance with the indenture governing our 9% senior notes, we have designated substantially all of our non-U.S. subsidiaries as "unrestricted subsidiaries" under that indenture, meaning that these subsidiaries are not subject to many of the covenants under that indenture. In addition, these entities are not considered "subsidiaries" subject to the restrictions under our credit facility. As a result, we and our non-U.S. subsidiaries must operate as separate business entities, which can have a number of implications, including the following: •If these subsidiaries were to require additional capital, we can contribute capital only if we could meet the tests for restricted payments or permitted investments under our indenture and our senior secured revolving credit facility. Thus, these entities may be entirely reliant on their own sources of working capital to fund their operations, which may limit their ability to pursue strategic growth opportunities, including acquisitions. •Our non-U.S. subsidiaries may have to rely on their own credit, which could increase our consolidated borrowing costs and could otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. •In the event contributions are needed to fund losses at our non-U.S. subsidiaries, any payments we make could deplete our restricted payments and permitted investment capacity under our indenture and senior secured revolving credit facility, limiting availability for other uses. Essex Europe's dependence on its continuing relationship with Nexans may expose Essex Europe to additional risks to its operations. Essex Europe has a number of continuing relationships with Nexans, including exclusive arrangements for the purchase of Essex Europe's pre-drawn wire needs through 2008, exclusive arrangements for the purchase of copper rod in France and a significant majority of its copper rod needs in Germany and Portugal through 2008 and leases of certain manufacturing facilities in shared locations with Nexans at Chauny and Bramsche. If Nexans does not provide these goods and services, Essex Europe may be required to obtain these goods and services from other sources or internally develop the capability to provide these goods and services. We may be unable to obtain or provide such goods and services at the same or similar costs and terms as those provided by Nexans, and the Essex Europe business, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In December 2007, Nexans provided notice that they did not intend to renew the agreement to provide pre-drawn copper wire to Essex Europe under the current terms and conditions. If we are unable to successfully negotiate a new agreement with Nexans, we will have to obtain another source for our pre-drawn wire needs in Europe or acquire the necessary equipment to perform the initial draw down of copper rod and bare wire internally. Our revenues, operating income and net income are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations due to the seasonal nature of our business, which makes it more difficult for investors and analysts to make meaningful comparisons of our interim quarterly results. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales, operating income and net income during the year due to the following factors: •seasonal reductions in demand by our communications cable segment customers during the first and fourth quarters due to the cold weather seasons in North America; •fourth quarter holiday related plant shutdowns of major OEM customers of our magnet wire and distribution segments; and 23 •seasonal decreases in sales volumes in Europe during the third quarter summer holiday season, which impacts our European magnet wire and distribution segment. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our interim financial results are typically not indicative of results for the entire fiscal year. We may incur costs and may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and in defending claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We may encounter difficulties, costs or risks in protecting our intellectual property rights or obtaining rights to intellectual property to permit us to continue or expand our business. Other companies, including some of our largest competitors, hold intellectual rights in our industries, and intellectual property held by others could inhibit our ability to introduce new products or require use of more expensive manufacturing processes unless we secure licenses on commercially reasonable terms if necessary. The unfavorable resolution of an intellectual property dispute could preclude us from manufacturing and selling certain products, require us to pay a royalty on the sale of certain products or could impair competitive advantages if a competitor wins the right to use processes or sell products we believed we had the right to. We might be unable to achieve planned cost savings or incur additional charges to income. We have undertaken a number of cost savings initiatives, including lean manufacturing initiatives and actions related to the restructuring of our North American manufacturing facilities and the related closure of our Vincennes magnet wire facility. We continually consider other cost-savings initiatives and monitor the cost effectiveness of our manufacturing network. Some of these activities, including restructuring programs, may require significant capital expenditures and result in charges against income as equipment is decommissioned or facilities are closed. These actions, including restructuring programs, are expected to reduce overall manufacturing costs. If we do not achieve all of the planned savings of these activities, we might not achieve expected levels of profitability. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We cannot assure you as to the market price for our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market under the trading symbol SPSX. The market price of our common stock will be subject to significant fluctuation in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial analysts in their estimates of our future earnings, conditions in the economy in general or in the wire and cable industry in particular, copper commodity prices and other factors beyond our control. No assurance can be given as to the market price for our common stock. Our operating results can fluctuate significantly from period to period. If we miss market expectations, our stock price could decline. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results in some periods may be below investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly earnings may be caused by many factors, including without limitation: •the volume and timing of orders from and shipments to our customers; •customer inventories; •work stoppages, raw material shortages and other developments affecting the operations of our customers; 24 •market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services; •variations in the mix of products and services we sell; and •the location and utilization of our production capacity and employees. Our dividend policies and other restrictions on the payment of dividends may prevent the payment of dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay cash dividends and may prohibit the payment of non-cash dividends and certain other payments. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of preferred stock and limiting the ability of stockholders to nominate directors, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder's best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 