Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K. This Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements. Factors that may cause these differences include those discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the economies in the geographic markets that we serve. Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products, systems or networks or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general economic conditions, including how much our customers and end-users spend on new construction, maintaining or reconfiguring their communications network, information technology, automobiles and automotive components, industrial manufacturing assets and power transmission and distribution infrastructures. If the U.S., European or other economies were to weaken, as occurred in the period from 2000 to 2003, many companies could significantly reduce their capital equipment and information technology budgets, and construction activity that necessitates the building or modification of communication networks and power transmission and distribution infrastructures could slow considerably. This could cause our net sales and financial results to decline significantly and we may not be able to service our debt. The increased use of fiber optic cable in the “local loop” may reduce the market for copper OSP products. Through our communications cable segment, we are the largest supplier, based on sales, of copper OSP cables used by the RBOCs and other telephone companies in the “local loop” portion of the telecommunications infrastructure. Copper OSP is the communications cable segment’s largest product group. However, fiber optic cable, which provides improved bandwidth and transmission speeds as compared to copper cable, has been increasingly deployed in the local exchange network over the past several years. Recently, certain RBOCs have begun to significantly increase the use of fiber optic cable 18 further downstream in their networks, in some cases all the way to the premises. While we believe that ultimately the transition from copper toward fiber optic cable will be evolutionary, it is possible that the rate of fiber optic replacement will accelerate significantly, which could significantly decrease the demand for our copper OSP cable. This decrease could result in a significant decline in sales of copper OSP cable, our net income and liquidity. Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive. Technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, a significant decrease in the cost and complexity of installation of fiber optic systems or increase in the cost of copper based systems could make fiber optic systems superior on a price performance basis to copper communications systems and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The superior technological characteristics of fiber optic cable have caused companies increasingly to deploy it in the local loop. Also, competitive alternatives to traditional telephone service, such as wireless and cable telephony and VoIP services, have had a negative impact on the demand for copper OSP wire and cable, and these threats are expected to increase. While we sell fiber optic cable and components and cable that is used in certain wireless applications, if fiber optic systems or wireless technology were to significantly erode the markets for copper based communications systems, our sales of fiber optic cable and products for wireless applications would likely not be sufficient to offset any decrease in sales or profitability of other products that may occur. Spending reductions by the telephone industry could adversely affect our business. Our largest customer segments for the communications cable segment are the RBOCs and major independent telephone operating or holding companies. Approximately 68% of the 2005 sales of the communications cable segment are attributable to these customers. Beginning in the second half of 2001 and continuing through 2005, the RBOCs and the independent telephone companies substantially reduced their capital expenditure levels as compared to periods prior to 2001, including substantial reductions in purchases of the communications cable products that we supply. The telephone companies are experiencing extreme competitive pressures from CATV companies and other alternative providers of local exchange service, resulting in a loss of access lines and subscribers. These market conditions could result in further reductions in the demand for our communications cable products. Further reductions in demand could lead to a substantial decrease in our revenues, net income and liquidity. Declines in access lines, including a decline in the new start housing market, could adversely affect our business. A decrease in access lines to homes and businesses could have a negative impact on our business. Competitive alternatives, such as wireless and cable telephony, digital subscriber lines or “DSL”, VoIP services, and cable modems have had a negative impact on the demand for additional access lines. Furthermore, the demand for access lines is impacted by new housing starts. Any negative access line growth resulting from these factors could result in reductions in the demand for our communications cable products. Migration of magnet wire demand to China may adversely affect our business. Our business may suffer due to the migration of magnet wire demand to China. Our magnet wire and distribution segments’ principal product is magnet wire, which is used primarily in motors for industrial, automotive, appliance and other applications. We currently service the North American and European markets, with limited sales elsewhere. Several of our major magnet wire customers have shifted, or have plans to shift, certain levels of product manufacturing to China. While we are currently constructing a 19 wholly owned “greenfield” manufacturing facility in China, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing the production facilities in China in sufficient time to enable us to effectively take advantage of this market, or that we will be able to successfully compete in China and/or offset any loss of business that may result from declining demand for our products in North America and Europe from this shift of customer requirements to China. Fluctuations in the supply or pricing of copper and other principal raw materials could harm our business. Copper is the primary raw material that we use to manufacture our products. There are a limited number of copper suppliers. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our copper suppliers or if there are any business interruptions at our copper suppliers, we may not have access to a sufficient supply of copper. If we were to suffer the loss of one or more important suppliers of copper, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and revenues. In addition, copper is a commodity and is therefore subject to price volatility. We may not be able to adjust product pricing to properly match the price of copper billed with the copper cost component of the inventory shipped. Increases in the cost of copper could reduce demand for our products. Copper pricing under our major telephone company contracts is generally based on the average copper price for the preceding quarter. To minimize the risk of fluctuations in the price of copper, we forward price copper purchases with our suppliers based on forecasted demand. To the extent forecasted demand differs significantly from actual demand, changes in the price of copper may have a negative impact on our operating profit. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2003 and continuing through 2005, copper prices have escalated rapidly, increasing from an average of $0.88 per pound for the month of October 2003 to an average of $1.68 per pound for 2005. Additionally, the daily spot price for copper has fluctuated from a low of $1.39 per pound to a high of $2.28 per pound during 2005. The rapid increase in copper prices can impact profitability in the short term based upon the timing of product price adjustments to match the increased copper costs. While we did not experience a material negative impact from this situation in 2005, our results in the second quarter of 2004 were negatively impacted due to accelerated orders by some communications cable customers in the first quarter of 2004 in anticipation of future contractual price adjustments related to increased copper costs. There can be no assurance that continued volatility in copper prices will not impact our future profitability. In addition, significant increases in the price of copper and the resultant increase in accounts receivable and, to a lesser degree, inventory impacts our working capital requirements. As a result of the increase in copper prices, we have experienced an estimated increase in 2005 in our working capital financing requirements of approximately $30 to $35 million. See “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” below. Other raw materials we use in the manufacture of our communications cable products are aluminum, bronze, steel, optical fibers and plastics, such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride. Additionally, natural gas is a key energy source used in the manufacture of magnet wire. The natural disasters that hit the Gulf Coast region of the United States in 2005 had a significant effect on natural gas supply and on raw material producers located in the region and those which rely on oil and gas or raw materials produced in the region. In 2005 certain of our raw material suppliers declared force majeure and instituted significant surcharges for energy and other costs. The markets for these key raw materials as well as certain chemicals used in producing enamels are extremely tight and are forecasted to remain so for the near term. There can be no assurance that we will be able to procure adequate supplies of our essential raw materials to meet our future needs. 20 Our inability to compete with other manufacturers in the wire and cable industry could harm our business. The market for wire and cable products is highly competitive. Each of our businesses competes with at least one major competitor. Many of our products are made to industry specifications and, therefore, may be interchangeable with competitors’ products. We are subject to competition on the basis of price, delivery time, customer service and our ability to meet specialty needs. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater resources, financial and otherwise, than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to compete successfully could result in a significant decrease in sales of our products and our net income and liquidity. Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business to generate future cash flow. Our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2005 was $313.8 million. We may also incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of our common stock. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · increase the amount of interest expense that we have to pay, because we increase the principal amount or because some of our borrowings (approximately $34.1 million as of December 31, 2005) are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; · increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; or · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. We may be unable to meet our covenant obligations under our senior secured revolving credit facility which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are dependent on the availability and cost of working capital financing and may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost of such financing. Our senior secured revolving credit facility contains covenants that we may not be able to meet. If we cannot meet these covenants, events of default would arise, which could result in payment of the applicable indebtedness being accelerated and a cross default to our other indebtedness. In addition, if we require working capital greater than that provided by our senior secured revolving credit facility, we may be required either to (1) seek to increase the availability under the senior secured revolving credit facility, (2) obtain other sources of financing or (3) reduce our operations. There can be no assurance that any amendment of our senior secured revolving credit facility or replacement financing would be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain an acceptable new credit facility upon expiration of our senior secured revolving credit facility or that the terms of any such new credit facility would be acceptable. 21 We may be unable to raise additional capital to meet capital expenditure needs if our operations do not generate sufficient funds to do so. Our business is expected to have continuing capital expenditure needs. While we anticipate that our operations will generate sufficient funds to meet our capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future, our ability to gain access to additional capital, if needed, cannot be assured. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, or unable to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit plans may require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. Funding for the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor is based upon the funded status of the plans and a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and discount rate. On December 1, 2003, we announced that benefit accruals under our defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees and for eligible employees who are not included in a unit of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement would be frozen as of January 22, 2004. Due to declining returns in the investment portfolio of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans in recent years, our U.S. defined benefit plans were under funded as of December 31, 2005 by approximately $37.9 million, based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of FAS 87. Our required cash contributions for 2006 are expected to be approximately $8.7 million. In the event that actual results differ negatively from the actuarial assumptions, the funded status of our defined benefit plans may change and any such deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and against earnings and increase our required cash contributions. If we are unable to retain senior management, our business operations could be adversely affected. Our success and future prospects depend on the continued contributions of our senior management. There can be no assurances that we would be able to find qualified replacements for these individuals if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team, and the process of integrating their replacements, could severely disrupt our operations. Failure to negotiate extensions of our labor agreements as they expire may result in a disruption of our operations. Approximately 21% of our U.S. employees are represented by various labor unions, all of which work in our North American magnet wire and distribution segment. Labor agreements covering approximately 10% of our U.S. employees expire during 2006. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning such issues will be successfully concluded. A protracted work stoppage could result in a disruption of our operations which could adversely affect our ability to deliver certain products and our financial results. We may not be able to sustain the benefits of the Belden and Nexans Asset Acquisitions or to identify, finance or integrate other acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the benefits of the Belden and Nexans Asset Acquisitions. Customers of Belden and Nexans that have assigned their contracts to us may not continue to purchase at past or anticipated future levels. In addition to the Belden and Nexans Asset Acquisitions, we evaluate possible acquisition opportunities from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We cannot assure you that any future acquisitions will be successful or that the anticipated strategic benefits of any future acquisitions will be realized. 22 We may not be able to realize the benefits of the Essex Nexans Transaction If we are not able to effectively integrate the operations and personnel of our U.K magnet wire business and the acquired Nexans European magnet wire business in a timely and efficient manner we may not realize the synergies expected from the transaction. In particular, if the integration is not successful, we may not realize the anticipated cost savings or other benefits of combining our U.K. magnet wire business with the Nexans European magnet wire business. In addition, to realize all the benefits of the transaction, we must manage the resulting larger European operations while continuing to manage our business in the United States. We cannot assure you that combining our U.K. magnet wire business and the Nexans European magnet wire business, even if achieved in an efficient and timely manner, will result in combined results of operations and financial condition superior to those that we could have achieved without the transaction. The diversion of management’s attention from ongoing operations and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The designation of Essex Nexans as an unrestricted subsidiary under our 9% Note indenture may have an adverse impact on our operations. In order to assure continued compliance with the indenture governing the 9% Notes, we have designated Essex Nexans as an “unrestricted subsidiary.” As a result, we and Essex Nexans operate as separate business entities, which can have a number of implications, including the following: · We cannot fully integrate the operations of Essex Nexans with that of Superior Essex Inc. and our other subsidiaries and as a result, the costs of operating Essex Nexans may be higher and the expected operational synergies may not occur. · If Essex Nexans were to require additional capital, we could contribute capital only if we could meet the tests for restricted payments or permitted investments under our indenture and our senior secured revolving credit facility. Thus, Essex Nexans is reliant on its own sources of working capital to fund its operations. · In the event contributions are needed to fund losses at Essex Nexans, payments we make could deplete our restricted payments and permitted investment capacity under our indenture and senior secured revolving credit facility, preventing those sources from being available for other uses. · Essex Nexans is under no obligation to make distributions to us. · Despite the separation of the operations, if Essex Nexans is not successful, it could have a material adverse affect on the perception of Superior Essex Inc. and our North American magnet wire business and its prospects in the eyes of customers, employees, suppliers, creditors and vendors. Essex Nexans’ dependence on its continuing relationship with Nexans may expose Essex Nexans to additional risks to its operations. Essex Nexans has a number of continuing relationships with Nexans, including exclusive arrangements for the purchase of Essex Nexans’ pre-drawn wire needs through 2008, exclusive arrangements for the purchase of copper rod in France and a significant majority of its copper rod needs in Germany through 2008, leases of manufacturing facilities in shared locations with Nexans at Chauny and Bramsche and research and development services. If Nexans does not provide these good and services, Essex Nexans may be required to obtain these goods and services from other sources or internally develop the capability to provide these goods and services. We may be unable to obtain or provide such goods and services at the same or similar costs and terms as those provided by Nexans, and the Essex Nexans business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, the factoring agreement provides that the financing party can terminate the arrangement if Nexans’ equity interest in Essex Nexans falls below established thresholds. If the factoring agreement 23 were terminated, we may be unable to gain access to additional financing on favorable terms and the Essex Nexans business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Consent of Nexans may be required for certain actions we believe are necessary or desirable for the Company and/or Essex Nexans, including transactions with the Company which represent a conflict transaction under French law, an increase or reduction in capital of Essex Nexans, certain sales or dispositions of Essex Nexans production assets to the Company, a merger of Essex Nexans or joint ventures or strategic alliances in which Essex Nexans is not the controlling entity. If consent is withheld, we may be unable to pursue strategies we believe to be in the best interests of Essex Nexans and Superior Essex. Our historical financial information is not comparable to our current financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our emergence from bankruptcy, we are operating our business with a new capital structure. We are also subject to the fresh-start reporting prescribed by GAAP and our financial statements for periods subsequent to November 10, 2003 reflect the application of these rules. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations will not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in the historical financial statements of Superior TeleCom, which may make it difficult for you to assess our future prospects based on historical performance. Risks Relating to our Common Stock We cannot assure you as to the market price for our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the trading symbol SPSX. The market price of our common stock will be subject to significant fluctuation in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial analysts in their estimates of our future earnings, conditions in the economy in general or in the wire and cable industry in particular and other factors beyond our control. No assurance can be given as to the market price for our common stock. Our dividend policies and other restrictions on the payment of dividends may prevent the payment of dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, covenants in our debt instruments restrict our ability to pay cash dividends and may prohibit the payment of dividends and certain other payments. Some institutional investors may only invest in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of preferred stock and regulating the nomination of directors, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 24 