D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Properties in which the Company has or is acquiring an interest in, are all currently at the exploration or development stage. The activities of the Company are speculative due to the high risk nature of its business which is the acquisition, financing, exploration and development of mining properties. The following risk factors, which are not exhaustive, could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations and could cause actual events to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements relating to the Company. These risks include but are not limited to the following: Legal and Political Risks Entrée may have to make certain concessions to the Government of Mongolia. The Minerals Law of Mongolia, which became effective on August 26, 2006, defines a mineral deposit of strategic importance (a “Strategic Deposit”) as a mineral resource that may have the potential to impact national security, or the economic and social development of the country at the national and regional levels, or that is generating or has the potential to generate more than five percent (5%) of Mongolia’s Gross Domestic Product in any given year. Either the Mongolian Government or Parliament may initiate proposals to declare a mineral resource as being a Strategic Deposit, but Parliament must approve any such proposal. Essentially, a Strategic Deposit is any deposit that Parliament has deemed, or may hereafter deem, to be large and/or valuable enough to warrant being so designated. The 15 Strategic Deposits that have to date been specified as such by Parliament have no defined coordinates. They each consist of concentrations of mineralization in a general area that is identified only by a name. Licence areas, on the other hand, are precisely defined by coordinates. Thus it is not feasible to definitively determine whether or not any given licence area is within, or overlaps, a Strategic Deposit. The Minerals Law of Mongolia provides that the State may be an equity participant with any private legal entity, up to a 34% equity interest, in the exploitation of any Strategic Deposit where the quantity and grade of the deposit have been defined by exploration that has not been funded from the State budget. The Ministry of Mining has advised Entrée that it considers the deposits on the Joint Venture Property to be part of the series of Oyu Tolgoi deposits, which were declared to be Strategic Deposits under Resolution No 57 dated July 16, 2009 of the State Great Khural. Entrée has been in discussions with stakeholders of the Oyu Tolgoi project, including the Government of Mongolia, OTLLC, Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC and Rio Tinto, since the Government of Mongolia temporarily restricted the joint venture licences from transfer in February 2013. The discussions to date have focussed on issues arising from Entrée’s exclusion from the Investment Agreement, including the fact that the Government of Mongolia does not have a full 34% interest in the Joint Venture Property; the fact that the mining licences integral to future underground operations are held by more than one corporate entity; and the fact that Entrée does not benefit from the stability that it would otherwise have if it were a party to the Oyu Tolgoi Investment Agreement. No agreements have been finalized. If the parties fail to reach mutually acceptable agreements in a timely manner, there is a risk that the Government of Mongolia may resort to measures which, whether legitimate or not, could have an adverse effect on the business, assets and financial condition of Entrée as well as the Company’s share price. Such measures could include revoking, cancelling or withdrawing the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant mining licences; attempting to invalidate or rescind the Entrée-OTLLC Joint Venture or Entrée’s interest in the Joint Venture Property; and filing legal proceedings against Entrée. Entrée’s is subject to legal and political risk in Mongolia. Entrée’s interest in the Joint Venture Property and Shivee West are not covered by the Investment Agreement. Government policy may change to discourage foreign investment, nationalization of the mining industry may occur and other government limitations, restrictions or requirements may be implemented. There can be no assurance that Entrée’s assets will not be subject to nationalization, requisition or confiscation, whether legitimate or not, by any authority or body. The political, social and economic environment in Mongolia presents a number of serious risks, including: corruption, requests for improper payments or other corrupt practices; uncertain legal enforcement; invalidation, confiscation, expropriation or rescission of governmental orders, permits, licences, agreements and property rights; the effects of local political, labour and economic developments, instability and unrest; currency fluctuations; and significant or abrupt changes in the applicable regulatory or legal climate. In addition, there can be no assurance that neighbouring countries’ political and economic policies in relation to Mongolia will not have adverse economic effects on the development of the Oyu Tolgoi project or Shivee West, including the ability to access power, transport and sell product and access labour, supplies and materials. 13 There is no assurance that provisions under Mongolian law for compensation and reimbursement of losses to investors under such circumstances would be effective to restore the full value of Entrée’s original investment or to compensate for the loss of the current value of its interest in the Lookout Hill property. Entrée’s interest in the Lookout Hill property may be affected in varying degrees by, among other things, government regulations with respect to restrictions on foreign ownership, state ownership of Strategic Deposits, production, price controls, export controls, income and other taxes, expropriation of property, employment, land use, water use, environmental legislation, mine safety and annual fees to maintain mining licences in good standing. The regulatory environment is in a state of continuing change, and new laws, regulations and requirements may be retroactive in their effect and implementation. There can be no assurance that Mongolian laws protecting foreign investments will not be amended or abolished or that existing laws will be enforced or interpreted to provide adequate protection against any or all of the risks described above. The legal framework in Mongolia is, in many instances, based on recent political reforms or newly enacted legislation, which may not be consistent with long-standing local conventions and customs. Although some legal title risks in respect of Lookout Hill may be mitigated by the fact that the licences are included in the contract area of the Investment Agreement, there may still be ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the agreements, licences and title documents through which Entrée holds its interest in the Lookout Hill property, or the underlying legislation upon which that interest is based, which are atypical of more developed legal systems and which may affect the interpretation and enforcement of Entrée’s rights and obligations. Mongolian institutions and bureaucracies responsible for administering laws may lack a proper understanding of the laws or the experience necessary to apply them in a modern business context. Many laws have been enacted, but in many instances they are neither understood nor enforced and may be applied in an inconsistent, arbitrary and unfair manner, while legal remedies may be uncertain, delayed or unavailable. In addition, Entrée’s licences, permits and assets are often affected in varying degrees, by political instability and governmental regulations and bureaucratic processes, any one or more of which could preclude Entrée from carrying out business activities fairly in Mongolia. Legal redress for such actions, if available, is uncertain and can often involve significant delays. Entrée is not presently a party to the Investment Agreement, and there can be no assurance that Entrée will be entitled to all of the benefits of the Investment Agreement. Entrée is not presently a party to the Investment Agreement. Although OTLLC has agreed under the terms of the Earn-In Agreement to use its best efforts to cause Entrée to be brought within the ambit of, made subject to and be entitled to the benefits of the Investment Agreement or a separate stability agreement on substantially similar terms to the Investment Agreement, unless and until Entrée finalizes agreements with the Government of Mongolia and other Oyu Tolgoi stakeholders, there can be no assurance that Entrée will be entitled to all of the benefits of the Investment Agreement, including stability with respect to taxes payable. Until such time as Entrée finalizes agreements with the Government of Mongolia and other Oyu Tolgoi stakeholders, it could be subject to the surtax royalty which came into effect in Mongolia on January 1, 2011. The rates of the surtax royalty vary from 1% to 5% for minerals other than copper. For copper, the surtax royalty rates range between 22% and 30% for ore, between 11% and 15% for concentrates, and between 1% and 5% for final products. No surtax royalty is charged on any minerals below a certain threshold market price, which varies depending on the type of minerals. This is in addition to the standard royalty rates of 2.5% for coal sold in Mongolia and commonly occurring minerals sold in Mongolia, and 5% for all other minerals. Even if Entrée does finalize agreements with the Government of Mongolia and other Oyu Tolgoi stakeholders, there can be no assurance that the present or future Parliament will refrain from enacting legislation that undermines such agreements or the Investment Agreement or that the present or a future government will refrain from adopting government policies or seeking to renegotiate the terms of such agreements or the Investment Agreement (which was threatened in both 2011 and 2012) in ways that are adverse to Entrée’s interests or that impair Entrée’s ability to develop Shivee West or OTLLC’s ability to develop and operate the Oyu Tolgoi project on the basis currently contemplated, which may have a material adverse impact on Entrée and the Company’s share price. 14 Recent and future amendments to Mongolian laws could adversely affect Entrée’s interest in the Lookout Hill property or make it more difficult or expensive to develop the property and carry out mining. The Government of Mongolia has put in place a framework and environment for foreign direct investment. However, there are political constituencies within Mongolia that have espoused ideas that would not be regarded by the international mining community as conducive to foreign investment if they were to become law or official government policy. This was evidenced by revisions to the Minerals Law in 2006 as well as by the recent passage of legislation to control foreign direct investment in strategic sectors of the Mongolian economy, including mining. In October 2011, Prime Minister Batbold stated in his 2012 budget speech that the Government of Mongolia is revisiting all treaties for the avoidance of double taxation, including the 2002 convention between Canada and Mongolia for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on capital (the “Canadian Double Tax Treaty”). On January 16, 2014, the Mongolian Parliament adopted a new State Minerals Policy. The main focus of the policy is to establish a stable investment environment; improve the quality of mineral exploration, mining and processing; encourage the use of environmentally friendly and modern technology; and strengthen the competitiveness of the Mongolian mining sector on the international market. The State Minerals Policy is also intended to serve as the basis for amendments to the existing Minerals Law and other laws relating to the mining sector. A draft of the proposed amendments to the Minerals Law has been prepared based on the principles of the State Mineral Policy, but has not been made public. The Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economic Development have also released drafts of new tax laws and amendments which include provisions related to taxation of foreign legal entities in Mongolia and more detailed rules for taxation of mining companies. On November 1, 2013, a new Investment Law came into effect in Mongolia. The new law is aimed at reviving foreign investment by easing restrictions on investors in key sectors such as mining and by providing greater certainty on the taxes they must pay. The new law replaces two previous laws, including the Law of Mongolia on the Regulation of Foreign Investment in Business Entities Operating in Sectors of Strategic Importance ("SEFIL"). The full impact of the new Investment Law is not yet known. If the Government of Mongolia revises, amends or cancels the Canadian Double Tax Treaty; if either of the new Investment Law or State Minerals Policy is implemented or interpreted in a manner that is not favourable to foreign investment; or if amendments to the Minerals Law or new tax laws are adopted that are not favourable to foreign investment, it could have an adverse effect on Entrée’s operations in Mongolia and future cash flow, earnings, results of operations and financial condition as well as the Company’s share price.. On February 27, 2013, Entrée received Notice from MRAM regarding the Entrée-OTLLC Joint Venture’s mining licences. On February 27, 2013, Notice was delivered to Entrée by MRAM that by Order No. 43 dated February 22, 2013, the Ministry of Mining has cancelled the 2009 Order of the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy registering the Hugo Dummett (including the Hugo North Extension) and Heruga reserves, and has requested that the Minerals Resource Council go over its previous conclusion that the reserves should be submitted to MRAM. The registration of reserves is a pre-condition to applying for the conversion of an exploration licence into a mining licence. The Notice states that the 2009 Order breached Clause 48.4 of the Minerals Law of Mongolia and Clause 9 of the Charter of the Minerals Resource Council because it was not within the authority of the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy to order that the reserves be registered. The Notice, which is not explicitly concerned with the issuance of the mining licences, further advises that any transfer, sale or lease of the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant mining licences is temporarily restricted. On September 4, 2013, the Minister of Mining issued Order No. 179, advising the Minerals Professional Council to re-submit its previous conclusions regarding the reserves to MRAM for review and registration. On September 6, 2013, the head of MRAM ordered that the Hugo Dummett (including the Hugo North Extension) and Heruga reserves be registered. While Entrée was also subsequently advised that the temporary transfer restriction on the joint venture mining licences will be lifted, it has not received official notification of the lifting of the restriction. Any future action by the Government of Mongolia to suspend, revoke, withdraw or cancel the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant mining licences, whether legitimate or not, would have an adverse effect on the business, assets and financial condition of Entrée as well as the Company’s share price. 15 The Earn-In Agreement requires OTLLC to enter into a form of joint venture agreement that bestows upon it certain powers and duties as manager of the Entrée-OTLLC Joint Venture, including the duty to cure title defects, the duty to prosecute and defend all litigation or administrative proceedings arising out of operations, and the duty to do all acts reasonably necessary to maintain the Joint Venture Property assets, including the mining licences. Pursuant to the Assignment Agreement dated March 1, 2005 between the Company, Turquoise Hill and OTLLC, the Company is also entitled to look to Turquoise Hill for the performance of OTLLC’s obligations under the Earn-In Agreement, which is governed by British Columbia law. In addition, the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant mining licences are included in the contract area of the Investment Agreement. The Investment Agreement restricts the grounds upon which the Mongolian State administrative authority in charge of geology and mining may revoke a mining licence covered by the Investment Agreement. The Investment Agreement also includes a dispute resolution clause that requires the parties to resolve disputes through international commercial arbitration procedures. Entrée is not a party to the Investment Agreement and does not have any direct rights under the Investment Agreement. In the event that the Government of Mongolia suspends, revokes, withdraws or cancels the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant mining licences, there can be no assurance that OTLLC, Turquoise Hill or Rio Tinto will invoke the international arbitration procedures, or that Entrée will be able to enforce the terms of the Earn-In Agreement to cause OTLLC or Turquoise Hill to do all acts reasonably necessary to maintain the Joint Venture Property assets, including by invoking the international arbitration procedures under the Investment Agreement. There may also be limitations on OTLLC, Turquoise Hill and Rio Tinto’s ability to enforce the terms of the Investment Agreement against the Government of Mongolia, which is a sovereign entity, regardless of the outcome of an arbitration proceeding. Without an effective means of enforcing the terms of the Earn-In Agreement or the Investment Agreement, Entrée could be deprived of substantial rights and benefits with little or no recourse for fair and reasonable compensation. Irrespective of the ultimate outcome of any potential dispute, any requirement to engage in discussions or proceedings with the Government of Mongolia, OTLLC, Turquoise Hill or Rio Tinto, whether or not formal, would likely result in significant expense and diversion of management’s attention. Entrée may experience difficulties with its joint venture partners. While the Entrée-OTLLC Joint Venture is operating under the terms of the form of joint venture agreement appended to the Earn-in Agreement, the joint venture agreement has not been formally executed by the parties. There can be no assurance that OTLLC or its shareholders will not attempt to renegotiate some or all of the material terms governing the joint venture relationship in a manner which could have an adverse effect on Entrée’s future cash flow, earnings, results of operations and financial condition as well as the Company’s share price. Entrée is and will be subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of joint ventures, which include disagreements as to how to develop, operate and finance a project, inequality of bargaining power, incompatible strategic and economic objectives and possible litigation between the participants regarding joint venture matters. These matters may have an adverse effect on Entrée’s ability to realize the full economic benefits of its interest in the property that is the subject of a joint venture, which could affect its results of operations and financial condition as well as the Company’s share price. Entrée may be unable to enforce its legal rights in certain circumstances. In the event of a dispute arising at or in respect of Entrée’s foreign operations, Entrée may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in Canada or other jurisdictions. Entrée may also be hindered or prevented from enforcing its rights with respect to a governmental entity or instrumentality because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity. Any adverse or arbitrary decision of a court, arbitrator or other governmental or regulatory body, or Entrée’s inability to enforce its contractual rights, may have a material adverse impact on Entrée’s business, assets, prospects, financial condition and results of operation as well as the Company’s share price.. Entrée may be subject to risks inherent in legal proceedings. In the course of its business, Entrée may from time to time become involved in various claims, arbitration and other legal proceedings, with and without merit. The nature and results of any such proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Any potential future claims and proceedings are likely to be of a material nature. In addition, such claims, arbitration and other legal proceedings can be lengthy and involve the incurrence of substantial costs and resources by Entrée, and the outcome, and Entrée’s ability to enforce any ruling(s) obtained pursuant to such proceedings, are subject to inherent risk and uncertainty. The initiation, pursuit and/or outcome of any particular claim, arbitration or legal proceeding could have a material adverse affect on Entrée’s financial position and results of operations, and on Entrée’s business, assets and prospects. In addition, if Entrée is unable to resolve any existing or future potential disputes and proceedings favourably, or obtain enforcement of any favourable ruling, if any, that may be obtained pursuant to such proceedings, it is likely to have a material adverse impact on Entrée’s business, financial condition and results of operations and Entrée’s assets and prospects as well as the Company’s share price. 16 Entrée’s rights to use and access certain land area could be adversely affected by the application of Mongolia’s Resolution 140 or Resolution 175. In June 2010, the Government of Mongolia passed Resolution 140, the purpose of which is to authorize the designation of certain land areas for “state special needs” within certain defined areas, some of which include or are in proximity to the Oyu Tolgoi project. These state special needs areas are to be used for Khanbogd village development and for infrastructure and plant facilities necessary in order to implement the development and operation of the Oyu Tolgoi project. A portion of the Shivee Tolgoi licence is included in the land area that is subject to Resolution 140. In June 2011, the Government of Mongolia passed Resolution 175, the purpose of which is to authorize the designation of certain land areas for “state special needs” within certain defined areas in proximity to the Oyu Tolgoi project. These state special needs areas are to be used for infrastructure facilities necessary in order to implement the development and construction of the Oyu Tolgoi project. Portions of the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant licences are included in the land area that is subject to Resolution 175. It is expected but not yet formally confirmed by the Government that to the extent that a consensual access agreement exists or is entered into between OTLLC and an affected licence holder, the application of Resolution 175 to the land area covered by the access agreement will be unnecessary. OTLLC has existing access and surface rights to the Joint Venture Property pursuant to the Earn-In Agreement. If Entrée is unable to reach a consensual arrangement with OTLLC with respect to Shivee West, Entrée’s right to use and access a corridor of land included in the state special needs areas for a proposed power line may be adversely affected by the application of Resolution 175. While the Mongolian Government would be responsible for compensating Entrée in accordance with the mandate of Resolution 175, the amount of such compensation is not presently quantifiable. The Investment Agreement contains provisions restricting the circumstances under which the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant licences may be expropriated. As a result, Entrée considers that the application of Resolution 140 and Resolution 175 to the Joint Venture Property will likely be considered unnecessary. Changes in, or more aggressive enforcement of, laws and regulations could adversely impact Entrée’s business. Mining operations and exploration activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These relate to production, development, exploration, exports, imports, taxes and royalties, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, mine decommissioning and reclamation, mine safety, toxic substances, transportation safety and emergency response and other matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the costs of exploring, drilling, developing, constructing, operating and closing mines and other facilities. It is possible that the costs, delays and other effects associated with these laws and regulations may impact Entrée’s decision as to whether to continue to operate in a particular jurisdiction or whether to proceed with exploration or development of properties. Since legal requirements change frequently, are subject to interpretation and may be enforced to varying degrees in practice, Entrée is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on operations. Changes in governments, regulations and policies and practices could have an adverse impact on Entrée’s future cash flows, earnings, results of operations and financial condition, which may have a material, adverse impact on Entrée and the Company’s share price. Risks Associated With The Development of the Oyu Tolgoi Project. The Joint Venture Property forms part of the Oyu Tolgoi project. As a result, certain risk factors associated with the development of the Oyu Tolgoi project are also applicable to Entrée and may adversely affect Entrée, including the following. There can be no assurance that Turquoise Hill will be capable of raising the additional funding that it needs to continue the development of the Oyu Tolgoi project, including the Hugo North Extension and Heruga deposits. Further development of the Oyu Tolgoi project depends upon Turquoise Hill’s ability to obtain a reliable source of funding. Volatility in capital markets and commodity prices and other macroeconomic factors may adversely affect Turquoise Hill’s ability to secure project financing. Even if macroeconomic factors are conducive to securing project financing, there can be no assurance that final agreement with the project lenders will be reached on terms reasonably satisfactory to Turquoise Hill and Rio Tinto or that Turquoise Hill or Rio Tinto will continue to pursue project financing for the Oyu Tolgoi project. In addition, OTLLC operates in a region of the world that is prone to economic and political upheaval and instability, which may make it more difficult to obtain sufficient debt financing from project lenders. 17 On July 28, 2013, Turquoise Hill announced that it had received notification from the Government of Mongolia that project financing for Oyu Tolgoi would require approval by the Mongolian Parliament. According to Turquoise Hill, senior representatives of the Government of Mongolia have since indicated that approval of Oyu Tolgoi project financing is a matter for the board of directors of OTLLC rather than the Mongolian government, and recent discussions indicate progress and a willingness from all parties to co-operate to resolve outstanding issues. However, key issues relating to the Oyu Tolgoi project remain unresolved, including the sharing of economic value from the project, clarification of initial development and construction costs, access to water, and the timing, completion and OTLLC shareholder approval of the feasibility study for the expansion of operations. Some uncertainty remains regarding the approvals process and timing required to resolve the complex outstanding issues to enable completion of the proposed project financing package. While Turquoise Hill announced in April 2013 that Rio Tinto had signed commitment letters with 15 global banks for long term project financing, these commitments will expire on March 31, 2014. As a result, there can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved in a satisfactory manner and that Oyu Tolgoi project financing will be available within a reasonable time frame to permit development of the underground mine, including Lift 1 and Lift 2 of the Hugo North Extension deposit and the Heruga deposit, within current cost estimates, on schedule or at all. Further, there can be no assurance that the corporate, governmental and other approvals required to implement Oyu Tolgoi project financing will be obtained or that, even if all such required approvals are obtained, Oyu Tolgoi project financing will be available on the currently proposed terms or at all. The actual cost of developing the Oyu Tolgoi project may differ materially from estimates and involve unexpected problems or delays. Turquoise Hill’s estimates regarding the cost of development and operation of the Oyu Tolgoi project are estimates only. The estimates and the assumptions upon which they are based are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual expenditures to differ materially from those estimated. If these estimates prove incorrect, the total capital expenditures required to complete development of the Oyu Tolgoi project underground mine, including the portion that Entrée is responsible for, may increase, which may have a material adverse impact on Entrée, its results of operations, financial conditions, and the Company’s share price. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of any new mine, including the Oyu Tolgoi project. These uncertainties include: the timing and cost of the construction of mining and processing facilities; the availability and cost of skilled labour, process water, power and transportation, including costs of transport for the supply chain for the Oyu Tolgoi project, which requires routing approaches which have not been fully tested; the annual usage costs to the local province for sand, aggregate and water; the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; and the need to obtain necessary environmental and other government permits, such permits being on reasonable terms, and the timing of those permits. The cost, timing and complexities of mine construction and development are increased by the remote location of the Oyu Tolgoi project. It is common in new mining operations and in the development or expansion of existing facilities to experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction and mine start-up, which may cause delays in commencement or expansion of mineral production. In particular, funding and development of the Oyu Tolgoi project underground mine, including Lift 1 and Lift 2 of the Hugo North Extension deposit and the Heruga deposit, has been delayed until matters with the Mongolian government can be resolved and a new time table agreed. Any of these delays could impact disclosed project economics. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the future development, construction or expansion activities will be successfully completed within cost estimates, on schedule or at all and, if completed, there is no assurance that such activities will result in profitable mining operations. Rio Tinto controls the development of the Oyu Tolgoi project, including the Joint Venture Property. OTLLC has earned either a 70% or 80% interest in the Joint Venture Property, depending on the depth at which minerals are extracted, and has effective control of the Entrée-OTLLC Joint Venture management committee. Rio Tinto, which beneficially owns 20.7% of the Company’s issued and outstanding shares, exerts a significant degree of control over the business and affairs of Turquoise Hill and OTLLC. Under the Heads of Agreement and MOA, Rio Tinto: is responsible for the management of the building and operation of the Oyu Tolgoi project (which includes the Heruga and Hugo North Extension deposits on the Joint Venture Property); is responsible for all exploration operations on behalf of OTLLC, including exploration on the Joint Venture Property; and prepares all programs and budgets for approval by the OTLLC board. The interest of Rio Tinto, Turquoise Hill and OTLLC and the interests of the Company’s other shareholders are not necessarily aligned and there can be no assurance that Rio Tinto, Turquoise Hill or OTLLC will exercise its rights or act in a manner that is consistent with the best interests of the Company’s other shareholders. 18 The Investment Agreement includes a number of future covenants that may be outside of the control of the investors to complete. The Investment Agreement commits Turquoise Hill and Rio Tinto to perform many obligations in respect of the development and operation of the Oyu Tolgoi project. While performance of many of these obligations is within the effective control of Turquoise Hill and Rio Tinto, the scope of certain obligations may be open to interpretation. Further, the performance of other obligations may require co-operation from third parties or may be dependent upon circumstances that are not necessarily within the control of Turquoise Hill and Rio Tinto. For example, OTLLC is obligated to utilize only Mongolian power sources within four years of commencing commercial production. Such sources of power may not be available or may be available upon commercial terms that are less advantageous than those available from other potential power suppliers. Non-fulfillment of any obligation may result in a default under the Investment Agreement. Such a default could result in a termination of the Investment Agreement, which may have a material adverse impact on Entrée and the Company’s share price. Risks Associated With the Funding Agreement Certain events outside of Entrée’s control may be an event of default under the Funding Agreement. If an event of default occurs under the Funding Agreement, the Company may be required to immediately pay to Sandstorm a default fee, which it may not have sufficient funds to cover. Some potential events of default may be outside of Entrée’s control, including a partial or full expropriation of Entrée’s interest in the Joint Venture Property which is not reversed during the abeyance period provided for in the Funding Agreement. If an event of default occurs and the Company is required to pay a default fee to Sandstorm, it will have a material adverse impact on Entrée’s business, financial condition assets and prospects, and on the Company’s share price. Short term fluctuations in mineral prices may expose the Company to trading losses. Under the Funding Agreement, the Company agreed to use future cash flows from its mineral property interests to purchase and deliver metal credits to Sandstorm. The Funding Agreement does not require the Company to deliver actual metal production, therefore the Company will have to use revenue it receives from the sale of its share of metal production to purchase the requisite amount of metal credits for delivery to Sandstorm. To the extent metal prices on the day on which the Company’s production is sold are different from metal prices on the day on which the Company purchases metal credits for delivery to Sandstorm, the Company may suffer a gain or loss on the difference. Risks Associated With Mining Resource and reserve estimates, including estimates for the Hugo North Extension, Heruga, Ann Mason and Blue Hill deposits, are estimates only, and are subject to change based on a variety of factors. The estimates of reserves and resources, including the anticipated tonnages and grades that will be achieved or the indicated level of recovery that will be realized, are estimates only and no assurances can be given as to their accuracy. Such estimates are, in large part, based on interpretations of geological data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques, and large scale continuity and character of the deposits will only be determined once significant additional drilling and sampling has been completed and analyzed. Actual mineralization or formations may be different from those predicted. It may also take many years from the initial phase of drilling before production is possible, and during that time the economic feasibility of exploiting a deposit may change. Reserve and resource estimates are materially dependent on prevailing market prices and the cost of recovering and processing minerals at the mine site. Market fluctuations in the price of metals or increases in the costs to recover metals may render the mining of ore reserves uneconomical and materially adversely affect operations. Moreover, various short-term operating factors may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. Prolonged declines in the market price of metals may render reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and could reduce materially reserves and resources. Should such reductions occur, the discontinuation of development or production might be required. The estimates of mineral reserves and resources attributable to a specific property are based on accepted engineering and evaluation principles. The estimated amount of contained metals in probable mineral reserves does not necessarily represent an estimate of a fair market value of the evaluated property. 19 There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of mineral reserves and resources. The estimates in the Company’s disclosure documents are based on various assumptions relating to commodity prices and exchange rates during the expected life of production, mineralization, the projected cost of mining, and the results of additional planned development work. Actual future production rates and amounts, revenues, taxes, operating expenses, environmental and regulatory compliance expenditures, development expenditures, and recovery rates may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant change in the assumptions underlying the estimates, including changes that result from variances between projected and actual results, could result in material downward revision to current estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on Entrée and the Company’s share price. Mineral prices are subject to dramatic and unpredictable fluctuations. Entrée expects to derive revenues, if any, from the extraction and sale of precious and base metals such as copper, gold, silver and molybdenum. The price of those commodities has fluctuated widely in recent years, and is affected by numerous factors beyond Entrée’s control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, global and regional demand, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, global or regional consumptive patterns, speculative activities, increased production due to improved extraction and production methods and economic events, including the performance of Asia’s economies. Ongoing worldwide economic uncertainty could lead to prolonged recessions in many markets which may, in turn, result in reduced demand for commodities, including base and precious metals. The effect of these factors on the price of base and precious metals, and, therefore, the economic viability of any of Entrée’s exploration projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Should prevailing metal prices remain depressed, there may be a curtailment or suspension of mining, development and exploration activities. Entrée would have to assess the economic impact of any sustained lower metal prices on recoverability and, therefore, the cut-off grade and level of reserves and resources. These factors could have an adverse impact on Entrée’s future cash flows, earnings, results of operations, stated reserves and financial condition, which may have an adverse impact on Entrée and the Company’s share price. Entrée has interests in properties that are in the exploration and development stages. There is no assurance that the existence of any mineral reserves will be established on any of the exploration properties in commercially exploitable quantities. Mineral reserves have been established on the Hugo North Extension deposit at Lookout Hill. Mineral resources have been outlined on the Hugo North Extension and Heruga deposits at Lookout Hill and the Ann Mason and Blue Hill deposits in Nevada. Unless and until mineral reserves are established in economically exploitable quantities on a deposit, and the property is brought into commercial production, Entrée cannot earn any revenues from operations on that deposit or recover all of the funds that it has expended on exploration. Development of a mineral property is contingent upon obtaining satisfactory exploration results. Mineral exploration and development involves substantial expenses and a high degree of risk, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to adequately mitigate. There is no assurance that commercial quantities of ore will be discovered on any of the exploration properties in which Entrée has an interest. There is also no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a mineral property will be brought into commercial production. The discovery of mineral deposits is dependent upon a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of the exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit, once discovered, is also dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, metal prices and government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. Most of the above factors are beyond the control of Entrée. The probability of an individual prospect ever having mineral reserves that meet the requirements of the definition is extremely remote. There is no assurance that exploration properties in which Entrée has an interest contain any mineral reserves and that funds that Entrée spends on exploration will not be lost. There can be no assurance that Entrée or its joint venture partners will be able to obtain or maintain any required permits. Both mineral exploration and extraction require permits from various foreign, federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities and are governed by laws and regulations, including those with respect to prospecting, mine development, mineral production, transport, export, taxation, labour standards, water rights, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. There can be no assurance that Entrée or its joint venture partners will be able to obtain or maintain any of the permits required for the continued exploration of mineral properties in which Entrée has an interest or for the construction and operation of a mine on those properties at economically viable costs. If required permits cannot be obtained or maintained, Entrée or its joint venture partners may be delayed or prohibited from proceeding with planned exploration or development of the mineral properties in which Entrée has an interest and Entrée’s business could fail. 20 Entrée is subject to substantial environmental and other regulatory requirements and such regulations are becoming more stringent. Non-compliance with such regulations could materially adversely affect Entrée. Entrée’s operations are subject to environmental regulations in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will likely require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect Entrée’s operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which Entrée holds interests which are presently unknown to Entrée and which have been caused by previous or existing third-party owners or operators of the properties. Government approvals and permits are also often required in connection with various aspects of Entrée’s operations. To the extent that such approvals are required and not obtained, Entrée may be delayed or prevented from proceeding with planned exploration or development of its mineral properties, which may have a material, adverse impact on Entrée and its share price. In Mongolia, Entrée is required to deposit 50% of its proposed reclamation budget with the local Soum Governor’s office (a soum is the local Mongolian equivalent of a township or district) which will be refunded only on acceptable completion of land rehabilitation after mining operations have concluded. Even if Entrée relinquishes its licences, Entrée will still remain responsible for any required reclamation. In the United States, exploration companies are required to apply to federal and state authorities for a work permit that specifically details the proposed work program. A reclamation bond based on the amount of surface disturbance may be requested prior to the issuance of the appropriate permit. There can be no assurance that the interest held by Entrée in exploration and development properties is free from defects. Entrée’s title to its resource properties may be challenged by third parties or the licences that permit Entrée to explore its properties may expire if Entrée fails to timely renew them and pay the required fees. Entrée has investigated title to the Shivee Tolgoi and Javhlant mining licences and Entrée is satisfied that the title to these licences is properly registered in the name of Entrée LLC, and that all required fees have been paid. Entrée has investigated the title to the claims comprising the Ann Mason Project and is satisfied that the title to these claims is properly registered in the name of M.I.M. (U.S.A.) Inc., Entrée Gold (US) Inc. or the party from whom Entrée is acquiring its interest, and that the claims are currently in good standing. Entrée cannot guarantee that the rights to explore its properties will not be revoked or altered to its detriment as a result of actions by the Mongolian Ministry of Mining, MRAM, Mongolia’s Resolution 140 and/or 175 or otherwise. The ownership and validity of mining claims and concessions are often uncertain and may be contested. In Mongolia, should a third party challenge to the boundaries or registration of ownership arise, the Government of Mongolia may declare the property in question a special reserve for up to three years to allow resolution of disputes or to clarify the accuracy of its mining licence register. Entrée is not aware of any third party challenges to the location or area of any of the mining concessions and mining claims in any of the jurisdictions in which it operates. There is, however, no guarantee that title to the claims and concessions will not be challenged or impugned in the future. If Entrée fails to pay the appropriate annual fees or if Entrée fails to timely apply for renewal, then these licences may expire or be forfeit. 21 If mineral reserves in commercially exploitable quantities are established on any of Entrée’s properties (other than the Joint Venture Property), Entrée will require additional capital and may need to acquire additional lands in order to develop the property into a producing mine. If Entrée cannot raise this additional capital or acquire additional lands, Entrée will not be able to exploit the resource, and its business could fail. If mineral reserves in commercially exploitable quantities are established on any of Entrée’s properties (other than the Joint Venture Property, in which Entrée has a carried interest), Entrée will be required to expend substantial sums of money to establish the extent of the resource, develop processes to extract it and develop extraction and processing facilities and infrastructure. Although Entrée may derive substantial benefits from the discovery of a major deposit, there can be no assurance that such a resource will be large enough to justify commercial operations, nor can there be any assurance that Entrée will be able to raise the funds required for development on a timely basis. If Entrée cannot raise the necessary capital or complete the necessary facilities and infrastructure, its business may fail. Entrée may be required to acquire rights to additional lands in order to develop a mine if a mine cannot be properly located on Entrée’s properties. There can be no assurance that Entrée will be able to acquire such additional lands on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Mineral exploration and development is subject to extraordinary operating risks. Entrée does not currently insure against these risks. Mineral exploration and development involves many risks which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Entrée’s operations will be subject to all of the hazards and risks inherent in the exploration and development of resources, including liability for pollution or hazards against which Entrée cannot insure or against which Entrée may elect not to insure. Any such event could result in work stoppages and damage to property, including damage to the environment. Entrée does not currently maintain any insurance coverage against these operating hazards. The payment of any liabilities that arise from any such occurrence would have a material, adverse impact on Entrée. Climatic Conditions can affect operations. Mongolia's weather varies to the extremes, with summer temperatures ranging up to 35° Celsius or more to winter lows of minus 31° Celsius. Such adverse conditions often preclude normal work patterns and can severely limit exploration and mining operations, usually making work difficult from November through to March. Although good project planning can ameliorate these factors, unseasonable weather can upset programs with resultant additional costs and delays. The mining industry is highly competitive and there is no assurance that Entrée will continue to be successful in acquiring mineral claims. If Entrée cannot continue to acquire properties to explore for mineral resources, Entrée may be required to reduce or cease operations. The mineral exploration, development, and production industry is largely unintegrated. Entrée competes with other exploration companies looking for mineral resource properties and the resources that can be produced from them. Entrée competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities. This competition could adversely affect its ability to acquire suitable prospects for exploration in the future. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Entrée will acquire any interest in additional mineral resource properties that might yield reserves or result in commercial mining operations. Risks Related To Our Company Entrée can provide investors with no assurances that it will generate any operating revenues or ever achieve profitable operations. Although Entrée has been in the business of exploring mineral resource properties since 1995, mineral reserves have only recently been established on a deposit in which Entrée has an interest. As a result, Entrée has never had any revenues from its operations. In addition, its operating history has been restricted to the acquisition and exploration of its mineral properties. Entrée anticipates that it will continue to incur operating costs without realising any revenues until such time as the Joint Venture Property is brought into production. Entrée expects to continue to incur significant losses into the foreseeable future. Entrée recognises that if it is unable to generate significant revenues from mining operations and any dispositions of its interests in properties, Entrée will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. Entrée can provide investors with no assurance that it will generate any operating revenues or ever achieve profitable operations. 22 The fact that Entrée has not earned any operating revenues since its incorporation may impact its ability to explore certain of its mineral properties or require that exploration be scaled back. Entrée has not generated any revenue from operations since its incorporation. Entrée anticipates that it will continue to incur operating expenses without revenues unless and until it is able to generate cash flows from the Entrée-OTLLC Joint Venture or it is able to identify a mineral reserve in a commercially exploitable quantity on one or more of its mineral properties and it builds and operates a mine. As at December 31, 2013, Entrée had working capital of approximately $46.7 million. Entrée’s average monthly operating expenses in 2013 were approximately $1.1 million, including exploration, general and administrative expenses and investor relations expenses. Entrée has a carried interest on all exploration activity carried out on the Joint Venture Property and, due to the nature of Entrée’s other mineral property interests, Entrée has the ability to alter its exploration expenditures and, to a lesser extent, its general and administrative expenses. As a result, Entrée believes that it will not have to raise any additional funds to meet its currently budgeted operating requirements for the next 12 months. If these funds are not sufficient, or if Entrée does not begin generating revenues from operations sufficient to pay its operating expenses when Entrée has expended them, Entrée will be forced to raise necessary funds from outside sources. While Entrée may be able to raise funds through strategic alliances, joint ventures, product streaming or other arrangements, it has traditionally raised its operating capital from sales of equity, but there can be no assurance that Entrée will continue to be able to do so. If Entrée cannot raise the money that it needs to continue exploration of its mineral properties, there is a risk that Entrée may be forced to delay, scale back, or eliminate certain of its exploration activities. Recent global financial conditions may adversely impact operations and the value and price of the Company’s Common Shares. Recent global financial and market conditions have been subject to increased volatility. This increased volatility may impact the ability of Entrée to obtain equity or debt financing in the future and, if obtained, on terms favourable to Entrée. If these increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, Entrée’s operations could be adversely impacted and the value and the price of the Company’s common shares could be adversely affected. As a result of their existing shareholdings and OTLLC’s right of first refusal, Rio Tinto, Turquoise Hill and OTLLC potentially have the ability to influence Entrée’s business and affairs. Rio Tinto’s beneficial shareholdings in the Company potentially give Rio Tinto the voting power to influence the policies, business and affairs of Entrée and the outcome of any significant corporate transaction or other matter, including a merger, business combination or a sale of all, or substantially all, of Entrée’s assets. In addition, Rio Tinto (on behalf of OTLLC) has operational control over the Joint Venture Property. OTLLC also has a right of first refusal with respect to any proposed disposition by Entrée of an interest in Shivee West, which is not subject to the Entrée-OTLLC Joint Venture. The share position in the Company of each of Turquoise Hill and Rio Tinto may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction involving a change of control of the Company in favour of a third party that otherwise could result in a premium in the market price of the Company’s common shares in the future. This risk is somewhat mitigated by the Funding Agreement, which provides that Sandstorm will vote its shares in the manner specified by the Company’s Board with respect to a take-over of the Company, provided the acquirer has agreed to deliver to Sandstorm a deed of adherence to the Funding Agreement. The Company’s Articles and indemnity agreements between the Company and its officers and directors indemnify its officers and directors against costs, charges and expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties. The Company’s Articles contain provisions requiring the Company to indemnify Entrée’s officers and directors against all judgements, penalties or fines awarded or imposed in, or an amount paid in settlement of, a legal proceeding or investigative action in which such party, by reason of being a director or officer of Entrée, is or may be joined. The Company also has indemnity agreements in place with its officers and directors. Such limitations on liability may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against the Company’s officers and directors and may discourage or deter the Company’s shareholders from suing its officers and directors based upon breaches of their duties to Entrée, though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit Entrée and the Company’s shareholders. Investors' interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per Common Share if the Company issues stock options or if the Company issues additional common shares to finance its operations. Entrée has never generated revenue from operations. Entrée is currently without a source of revenue and the Company will most likely be required to issue additional common shares to finance Entrée’s operations and, depending on the outcome of the exploration programs, may issue additional common shares to finance additional exploration programs on any or all of Entrée’s properties or to acquire additional properties. 23 The Company may also in the future grant to some or all of Entrée’s directors, officers, consultants, and employees options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives to those persons. Such options may be granted at prices equal to market prices, or at prices as allowable under the policies of the TSX and the Company’s Stock Option Plan, when the public market is depressed. The issuance of any equity securities could, and the issuance of any additional common shares will, cause the Company’s existing shareholders to experience dilution of their ownership interests. If the Company issues additional common shares, investors' interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per common share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. As at December 31, 2013 Entrée had outstanding options exercisable into 14,400,500 common shares which, if exercised as at March 28, 2014 would represent approximately 8.94% of its issued and outstanding common shares. If all of these options are exercised and the underlying common shares are issued, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other shareholders. The dilution may result in a decline in the market price of the Company’s common shares. Earnings and Dividend Record. The Company has no earnings or dividend record. The Company has not paid dividends on its common shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The Company’s current intention is to apply any future net earnings to increase its working capital. Prospective investors seeking or needing dividend income or liquidity should, therefore, not purchase the Company’s common shares. The Company currently has no revenue and a history of losses, so there can be no assurance that the Company will ever have sufficient earnings to declare and pay dividends to the holders of common shares. Conflicts of Interest. Certain of Entrée’s officers and directors may be or become associated with other natural resource companies that acquire interests in mineral properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Entrée’s directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to its best interests and to disclose any interest which they may have in any of its projects or opportunities. In general, if a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict will disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter or, if he does vote, his vote does not count. Dependence on Key Management Employees. Entrée’s ability to continue its exploration and development activities and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that Entrée will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Its development now, and in the future, will depend on the efforts of key management figures. The loss of any of these key people could have a material adverse effect on Entrée’s business. Entrée does not currently maintain key-man life insurance on any of its key employees. Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact Entrée’s financial position and results. Entrée faces risks associated with fluctuations in Canadian, United States, Australian, Peruvian and Mongolian currencies. The Company is subject to anti-corruption legislation, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar legislation, such as Canada’s Corruption of Foreign Officials Act (collectively, “Anti-Corruption Legislation”), which prohibits Entrée or any officer, director, employee or agent of Entrée or any shareholder of the Company on its behalf from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. Anti-Corruption Legislation also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Entrée’s international activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by its employees, consultants or agents, even though they may not always be subject to its control. Entrée discourages these practices by its employees and agents. However, Entrée’s existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and its employees, consultants and agents may engage in conduct for which it might be held responsible. Any failure by Entrée to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that its employees and agents comply with Anti-Corruption Legislation and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on Entrée’s ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions, which may have a material adverse impact on Entrée and its share price. 24 The Company believes that it was a passive foreign investment company during 2013, which may have a material effect on U.S. holders. The Company believes it was a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) during the year ended December 31, 2013 and may be a PFIC for subsequent tax years, which may have a material effect on United States shareholders (“U.S. Holders”). United States income tax legislation contains rules governing PFICs, which can have significant tax effects on U.S. Holders of foreign corporations. A U.S. Holder who holds stock in a foreign corporation during any year in which such corporation qualifies as a PFIC is subject to United States federal income taxation under one of two alternative tax regimes at the election of each such U.S. Holder. The United States federal income tax consequences to a U.S. Holder of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares will depend on whether such U.S. Holder makes an election to treat the Company as a “qualified electing fund” or “QEF” under Section 1295 of the Code (“QEF Election”) or a mark-to-market election under Section 1296 of the Code (“Mark-to-Market Election”). U.S. Holders should be aware that there can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a QEF, or that the Company will supply U.S. Holders with information that such U.S. Holders require to report under the QEF rules, in event that the Company is a PFIC and a U.S. Holder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. Holders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their common shares. Additional adverse rules would apply to U.S. Holders for any year the Company is a PFIC and Entrée owns or disposes of shares in another corporation which is a PFIC. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences”. Each U.S. Holder should consult its own tax advisors regarding the PFIC rules and the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares. It may be difficult to enforce judgements or bring actions outside the United States against the Company and certain of its directors. The Company is a Canadian corporation and certain of its directors are neither citizens nor residents of the United States. A substantial part of the assets of several of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for an investor: to enforce in courts outside the United States judgements obtained in United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws against these persons and the Company; or to bring in courts outside the United States an original action to enforce liabilities based upon United States federal securities laws against these persons and the Company. Increased costs and compliance risks as a result of being a public company. Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly over time. The Company anticipates that general and administrative costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase with ongoing compliance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as any new rules implemented by the SEC, Canadian Securities Administrators, the NYSE MKT and the TSX in the future. These rules and regulations have significantly increased the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to effectively meet all of the requirements of these regulations, including Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and National Instrument 52-109 of the Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 52-109”). Any failure to effectively implement internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results, cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the common shares. These rules and regulations have made it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company’s ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley and/or NI 52-109 could be impaired, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decrease. 25 Differences in United States and Canadian reporting of reserves and resources. The disclosure in this Annual Report, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, uses terms that comply with reporting standards in Canada. The terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource” are defined in and required to be used by the Company pursuant to NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Industry Guide 7 and normally are not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources, or inferred mineral resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility, pre-feasibility studies or other economic studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally mineable. Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC Industry Guide 7 standards as in place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Further, the terms “Mineral Reserve”, “Proven Mineral Reserve” and “Probable Mineral Reserve” are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101 and the CIM Standards. These definitions differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7. Under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards, a “final” or “bankable” feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves and all necessary permits or governmental authorizations must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority. Accordingly, information contained in this Annual Report and the documents incorporated by reference herein containing descriptions of the Company’s mineral deposits may not be comparable to similar information made public by United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements under the United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. As a “foreign private issuer”, the Company is exempt from Section 14 proxy rules and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company is a “foreign private issuer” as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “U.S. Exchange Act”). Equity securities of the Company are accordingly exempt from Sections 14(a), 14(b), 14(c), 14(f) and 16 of the U.S. Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 3a12-3 of the U.S. Exchange Act. Therefore, the Company is not required to file a Schedule 14A proxy statement in relation to the annual meeting of shareholders. The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information on Form 6-K may result in shareholders having less complete and timely information in connection with shareholder actions. The exemption from Section 16 rules regarding reports of beneficial ownership and purchases and sales of common shares by insiders and restrictions on insider trading in our securities may result in shareholders having less data and there being fewer restrictions on insiders’ activities in our securities. 