risk factors in the section entitled “Risk Factors” set forth in the offering memorandum for the issuance of our 2.875% Convertible Notes on June 27, 2007. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our current business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we do not generate a sufficient amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control, our liquidity and our ability to service our indebtedness and fund our operations would be harmed. We believe that our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our credit facilities will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs. However, we have substantial debt service obligations, working capital needs and contractual commitments. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to us under credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our existing indebtedness, fund our expansion efforts or fund our other liquidity needs. Changes in applicable laws and regulations governing consumer protection and lending practices, both domestically and abroad, may have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous state and certain federal and foreign laws and regulations which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand our business. These regulations govern or affect: • check cashing fees; • licensing and posting of fees; • lending practices, such as truth in lending and installment and single-payment lending; • interest rates and usury; • loan amount and fee limitations; • currency reporting; • privacy of personal consumer information; and • prompt remittance of proceeds for the sale of money orders. As we develop and introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, future legislation or regulations may restrict our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations and may have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, states may also seek to impose new licensing requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. Our business is also subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings, which could generate adverse publicity or cause us to incur substantial expenditures or modify the way we conduct our business. Currently our check cashing and consumer lending activities are subject to only limited substantive regulation in Canada other than usury laws. The Canadian Parliament has recently transferred jurisdiction and the refinement of laws and regulation of our industry’s consumer loan products to the respective provinces. There can be no assurance that the new regulations that may be adopted would not have a detrimental effect on our consumer lending business in Canada. Historically our Canadian consumer lending activities were subject to provincial licensing in Sastatchewan, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Newfoundland. A federal 22 Table of Contents usury ceiling applies to loans we make to Canadian customers. Such borrowers contract to repay us in cash; if they elect to repay by check, we also collect, in addition to a permissible finance charge, our customary check-cashing fees. Effective May 3, 2007, the Canadian Parliament amended the federal usury law to transfer jurisdiction and the development of laws and regulations of our industry’s consumer loan products to the respective provinces. To date, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, British Columbia and Saskatchewan have proposed or adopted substantive regulation of short-term consumer lenders pursuant to the new provincial authority; Alberta’s regulatory framework is currently under review and is expected to be implemented in 2008. In general, such regulations are similar to those in effect in the United States and require lenders to be licensed, set maximum limits on the charges to the consumer for a loan, prohibit lenders, in some states, from having more than one short-term loan with the same borrower at the same time and regulate collection practices. In the United Kingdom, our consumer lending activities must comply with the Consumer Credit Act of 1974 and related rules and regulations which, among other things, require us to obtain governmental licenses and prescribe the presentation, form and content of loan agreements. The modification of existing laws or regulations in Canada and the United Kingdom, or the adoption of new laws or regulations restricting or imposing more stringent requirements on our international check cashing and consumer lending activities, could increase our operating expenses and significantly limit our international business activities. Public perception and press coverage of single-payment consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. Consumer advocacy groups and some legislators have recently advocated governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict certain types of short-term consumer lending. Typically the consumer groups, some legislators and press coverage focus on lenders that charge consumers interest rates and fees that are higher than those charged by credit card issuers to more creditworthy consumers. This difference in credit cost may become more significant if a consumer does not repay the loan promptly, but renews the loan for one or more additional short-term periods. These types of short-term single-payment loans are often characterized by consumer groups, some legislators and press coverage as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If consumers accept this negative characterization of certain single-payment consumer loans and believe that the loans we provide to our customers fit this characterization, demand for our loans could significantly decrease, which could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. If our estimates of loan losses are not adequate to absorb losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for anticipated losses on loans we make directly as well as for fee adjustments for losses on loans we historically had originated and serviced for others. To estimate the appropriate level of loan loss reserves, including the reserve for estimated reductions to loan servicing fees, we consider the amount of outstanding loans owed to us, as well as loans owed to banks and serviced by us, historical loans charged off, current collection patterns and current economic trends. Our current allowance for loan losses is based on our charge-offs, expressed as a percentage of loan amounts originated for the last twelve months applied against the principal balance of outstanding loans that we make directly and outstanding loans we originate and service for others. As of June 30, 2007, our allowance for loan losses on company-funded consumer loans that were not in default was $8.6 million; our allowance for losses on defaulted loans was $18.0 million; and our reserve for estimated reductions to loan service fees was $0.7 million. These reserves, however, are estimates, and if actual loan losses or reductions to loan servicing fees are materially greater than our loan loss reserves, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Legal proceedings may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows in future periods. We are currently subject to a number of legal proceedings. We are vigorously defending these proceedings. However, the resolution of one or more of these proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows in future periods. 23 Table of Contents Competition in the financial services industry could cause us to lose market share and revenues. The industry in which we operate is highly fragmented and very competitive. In addition, we believe that the market will become more competitive as the industry consolidates. In addition to other check cashing stores and consumer lending stores in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, we compete with banks and other financial services entities and retail businesses that cash checks, offer consumer loans, sell money orders, provide money transfer services or offer other products and services offered by us. Some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby affecting our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Unexpected changes in foreign tax rates and political and economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results. We currently conduct significant check cashing and consumer lending activities internationally. Our foreign subsidiaries accounted for 72.3% of our total revenues during fiscal 2007 and 65.8% of our total revenues during fiscal 2006. Our financial results may be negatively impacted to the extent tax rates in foreign countries where we operate increase and/or exceed those in the United States and as a result of the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings. Moreover, if political, regulatory or economic conditions deteriorate in these countries, our ability to conduct our international operations could be limited and the costs could be increased, which could negatively affect our operating results. The international scope of our operations may contribute to increased costs and negatively impact our operations. Our operations in Canada and the United Kingdom are significant to our business and present risks which may vary from those we face domestically. At June 30, 2007, assets held by our foreign subsidiaries represented 67.8% of our total assets. Since international operations increase the complexity of an organization, we may face additional administrative costs in managing our business. In addition, most countries typically impose additional burdens on non-domestic companies through the use of local regulations, tariffs and labor controls. Unexpected changes to the foregoing could negatively impact our operations. Foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations. We derive significant revenue, earnings and cash flow from our operations in Canada and the United Kingdom. Our results of operations are vulnerable to currency exchange rate fluctuations in the Canadian dollar and the British pound against the United States dollar. We estimate that a 10.0% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would have impacted income before income taxes by approximately $7.6 million for fiscal 2007 and $6.8 million for fiscal 2006. This impact represents nearly 136.6% of our consolidated income before income taxes for fiscal 2007 and 19.7% of our consolidated income before income taxes for fiscal 2006. Our results of operations will continue to be significantly affected by foreign currency fluctuations, which would cause our results to be below expectations in any period. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to the level of transactions effected by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could be affected negatively by a general economic slowdown. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from cashing checks. Revenues from check cashing accounted for 40.7% of our total revenues during fiscal 2007 and 43.4% of our total revenues during fiscal 2006. Any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer transactions and employment could reduce the volume of transactions that we process and have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties transitioning our U.S. installment-lending business to our company-funded short-term single payment loan product. In the United States, in certain states we historically have engaged in consumer lending as a servicer for First Bank. We provided First Bank with marketing, servicing and collection services for their installment loan product. As of April 2007, First Bank no longer originates consumer loans through third-party retail locations. Accordingly, we are transitioning our CustomCash® installment loan product customers to our company-funded short-term single payment loan. If we are unsuccessful in transitioning our installment loan customers to company-funded single payment consumer loans, our earnings could be adversely affected. Our business model for our legal document processing services business is being challenged in the courts, as well as by state legislatures, which could result in our discontinuation of these services in any one or more jurisdictions. Our business model for our legal document processing services business is being challenged in various states and, at the federal level, by various United States bankruptcy trustees, as the unauthorized practice of law. A finding in any of these pending lawsuits and proceedings that our legal document processing services business model constitutes the unauthorized practice of law could result in our discontinuation of these services in any one or more jurisdictions. Future legislative and regulatory activities and court orders may restrict our ability to continue our current legal document processing services business model or expand its use. For example, there have been recent efforts by various trade and state bar associations and state legislatures and regulators, such as in Massachusetts, to define the practice of law in a manner which would prohibit the preparation of legal documents by non-attorneys. In Illinois, as we have done successfully in both California and Arizona, we have sponsored legislation (presently pending in both the Illinois House and Senate) that would provide a “safe harbor” for franchisees under the business model. Changes in local rules and regulations such as local zoning ordinances could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business can be subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations. Any actions taken in the future by local zoning boards or other local governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on, our ability to provide products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our growth effectively. Our expansion strategy, which contemplates the addition of new stores and the acquisition of competitor stores, is subject to significant risks. Our continued growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management employees, the availability of adequate financing for our expansion activities, the ability to successfully transition acquired stores or their historical customer base to the Company’s operating platform, the ability to obtain any government permits and licenses that may be required and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully grow our business or that our current business, results of operations and financial condition will not suffer if we are unable to do so. Expansion beyond the geographic areas where the stores are presently located will increase demands on management and divert their attention. In addition, expansion into new products and services will present new challenges to our business and will require additional management time. Our check cashing services may become obsolete because of technological advances. We derive a significant component of our revenues from fees associated with cashing payroll, government and personal checks. Recently, there has been increasing penetration of electronic banking services into the 25 Table of Contents check cashing and money transfer industry, including direct deposit of payroll checks and electronic transfer of government benefits. To the extent that checks received by our customer base are replaced with such electronic transfers, demand for our check cashing services could decrease. Our business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues and earnings to fluctuate. Our business is seasonal due to the impact of several tax-related services, including cashing tax refund checks, making electronic tax filings and processing applications for refund anticipation loans. Historically, we have generally experienced our highest revenues and earnings during the third fiscal quarter ending March 31 when revenues from these tax-related services peak. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our financial results would be adversely impacted and our ability to service our debt, including our ability to make interest payments on our debt, may also be adversely affected. Because we maintain a significant supply of cash in our stores, we may be subject to cash shortages due to robbery, employee error and theft. Since our business requires us to maintain a significant supply of cash in each of our stores, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from robberies as well as employee errors and theft. Although we have implemented various programs to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for theft and provide security, systems and processes for our employees and facilities, we cannot assure you that robberies, employee error and theft will not occur and lead to cash shortages that could adversely affect our results of operations. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the members of our senior management team, which have been instrumental in procuring capital to assist us in executing our growth strategies, identifying and negotiating domestic and international acquisitions and providing expertise in managing our developing international operations. The loss of the services of one or more members of senior management could harm our business and future development. Our continued growth also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain the requisite personnel as needed in the future, our operating results and growth could suffer. A catastrophic event at our corporate or international headquarters or our centralized call-center facilities in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our global business management processes are primarily provided from our corporate headquarters in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, and our operations headquarters in Victoria, British Columbia and Nottingham, England. We also maintain a centralized call-center facility in Salt Lake City, Utah that performs customer service, collection and loan-servicing functions for our consumer lending business, as well as similar facilities in Victoria, British Columbia and Nottingham, England. We have in place disaster recovery plans for each of these sites, including data redundancy and remote information back-up systems, but if any of these locations were severely damaged by a catastrophic event, such as a flood, significant power outage or act of terror, our operations could be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in 26 Table of Contents control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • a board of directors that is classified such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the transaction may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may be able to exert significant control over our future direction. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders together control a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, may be able to exert significant influence, as a practical matter, on all matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. We are also a party to employment agreements with Jeffrey Weiss and Donald Gayhardt that require us to use our commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that they continue to be members of our board of directors as long as they are our Chief Executive Officer and President, respectively. As a result, this concentration of ownership and representation on our board of directors may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the company or its assets and might reduce the market price of our common stock. The accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, such as our 2.875% Senior Convertible Notes due 2027, may be subject to change. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement of the excess of the conversion value over the principal amount, if any, and meeting specified requirements under Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00-19, “Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion,” is accounted for in a manner similar to nonconvertible debt, with the stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable upon conversion of the security being accounted for under the treasury stock method. The effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of our 2.875% Senior Convertible Notes due 2027 are not included in the calculation of our earnings per share until the conversion price is “in the money,” and we are assumed to issue the number of shares of common stock necessary to settle. At the July 25, 2007 FASB meeting, the FASB agreed to issue for comment a proposed FASB Staff Position (FSP) addressing convertible instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, (including partial cash settlement). The proposed FSP would require issuers to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The proposed FSP would require bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity, and then accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to result in the “economic interest cost” being reflected in the income statement. The proposed FSP would make any final guidance effective for fiscal periods after December 15, 2007, would permit early application, and would be applied retrospectively to all periods 27 Table of Contents presented (retroactive restatement) pursuant to the guidance in FASB Statement No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections. The final FSP is expected to be issued by December 2007. We cannot predict the timing or any outcome of the FASB deliberations, whether the FASB will require net share settled convertible debt securities to be accounted for under the existing method, the proposed method described above or some other method, when any change would be implemented or whether such a change would be implemented retroactively or prospectively. The FASB may even recommend broader reconsideration of other forms of convertible debt securities. We also cannot predict any other changes in generally accepted accounting principals, or GAAP, that may be made affecting accounting for convertible debt securities. Any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results. These impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our security, including our common stock and the 2.87% Senior Convertible Notes due 2027. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 