ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain expectations and projections regarding our future performance referenced in this Form 10-K, in other materials we file with the SEC or otherwise release to the public, and on our website are forward-looking statements. Senior officers also may make verbal statements to analysts, investors, regulators the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve matters that are not historical facts, such as statements in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere regarding our future operations, prospects, product demand, strategies, investments, financial condition (including liquidity and capital resources), economic performance (including growth and earnings), benefits expected as a result of our projected growth, and industry conditions. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements using words such as “anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “can,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future,” “goal,” “indicate,” “intend,” “may,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” target,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, our current expectations and assumptions, and our operating plans. While we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of the currently available information, our expectations are subject to future events, risks and inherent uncertainties, as well as potentially inaccurate expectations and assumptions, and there are numerous factors—many beyond our control—that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Such events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and in the other documents that we file with the SEC. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this Form 10-K, generally because we do not perceive them to be material, that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent circumstances or events except as required by federal securities laws. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports to the SEC. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K. This Form 10-K contains forward looking statements that involve risks and 14 uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements. Factors that may cause these differences include those discussed below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Risks to Our Business Related to Copper Copper is the primary raw material we use in the manufacture of our products. In 2006, we purchased over 650 million pounds of copper. A majority of our sales are pursuant to customer arrangements which provide for adjustments in pricing to take into account changes in the cost of copper. See “Business—Summary of Certain Customer Agreements.” Over the past three years the spot price of copper has escalated rapidly and has been subject to significant volatility. The average daily, high and low COMEX and LME spot prices per pound of copper for the periods indicated are summarized as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 COMEX: Average $ 3.10 $ 1.68 $ 1.29 High 4.08 2.28 1.54 Low 2.13 1.39 1.06 LME: Average 3.05 1.67 1.30 High 3.99 2.11 1.49 Low 2.06 1.39 1.06 Increases, decreases and fluctuations in copper prices may have material adverse effects on our business, including those described below: We may be unable to adequately hedge risks related to volatility, including declines, in copper pricing, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Approximately half of our 2006 communications cable segment sales were to telecommunications company customers pursuant to multi-year agreements under which the price of the copper component of our communications cable products is fixed for each quarter based on a preceding quarterly average of copper prices, as described above under “Business—Summary of Certain Customer Agreements.” As a result, the price of the copper component of our product billed to customers may be different than the current price of copper at the time of sale and we may not be able to match the price billed with the copper cost component of the inventory shipped. To minimize this risk, we forward price copper purchases with our suppliers based on forecasted demand. Volatility in the price of copper, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, if copper prices decline rapidly, actual demand may be less than forecasted demand as customers may reduce or delay purchases in anticipation of future contractual sales price reductions. As a result, the cost of inventory, including the cost of copper acquired under forward purchase agreements, may exceed the current or expected selling price of the product and may result in reduced profitability or even operating losses. In addition, rapid increases in copper prices can impact operating results in the short term if actual demand exceeds forecasted demand because customers may accelerate orders in advance of expected future contractual sales price increases to take advantage of existing copper prices. In this case, we may have to utilize higher cost inventory or purchase copper at current prices to fulfill orders priced at lower prior period copper prices which may result in reduced profitability or operating losses. While we did not experience a material negative impact from this situation in 2005 and 2006, our results in the second quarter of 2004 were negatively impacted due to accelerated 15 orders by some communications cable customers in the first quarter of 2004 in anticipation of future contractual price adjustments related to increased copper costs. Certain of our North American and European magnet wire business customers frequently fix the copper cost component of future committed purchases. See “Business—Summary of Certain Customer Agreements.” We forward price copper purchases or utilize COMEX or LME fixed price futures contracts to minimize the commodity price risk associated with these sales. If copper prices decline rapidly, the risk that our customers may delay or default on their committed purchases may increase. As a result we may incur losses on our COMEX or LME futures contracts or be required to take delivery of copper inventory at prices in excess of then-current copper prices. In addition to the above, we maintain finished goods inventories, particularly with respect to our distribution customers, to meet near term expected demand. Pricing for the sale of these inventories is generally based on current copper prices or the average COMEX or LME price for the prior month. Rapid declines in the price of copper may result in our inventories being carried at costs in excess of net realizable value and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in copper prices may reduce customer demand for our products which may have a material adverse effect on our business. As our product prices increase due to rises in copper prices, customers, particularly in our communications cable business, may more quickly exceed their capital budgets for a particular period and reduce the funds available for the purchase of our products. We believe our communications cable segment sales were adversely impacted in the fourth quarter of 2006 due to budgetary constraints caused by high copper prices. Additionally, as pricing for our copper-based products increases, alternative products, such as fiber optic cable in our communications business and aluminum in our magnet wire business, may become more price competitive with our copper-based products and demand for such products may be materially adversely affected as described below under “—Other Risks Relating to Our Business.” Increases in copper prices will increase our need for working capital. As the price of copper increases, our working capital requirements increase. We estimate that each $1 change in the cost of copper has a $70 million impact on our working capital. Increases in our working capital requirements can materially adversely impact our results of operations, our cash flow and our available liquidity to fund other business needs. Furthermore, there is no assurance we would be able to finance additional working capital requirements or finance such working capital requirements on favorable terms. If we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. See “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity and capital resources” below. Increases in copper prices may increase credit and default risk with respect to our customers. Increases in the price of our products as copper prices rise may place additional demands on the working capital and liquidity needs of our customers. Accordingly, our customers’ cash flow may be negatively impacted which may have an adverse effect on the timing and amount of payment of our accounts receivable. Shortages or disruptions in the availability of copper could have a material adverse effect on our business. Foreign economies have been consuming an increasing proportion of worldwide copper production. This and other macro-economic factors, together with labor and other business interruptions experienced by certain copper suppliers, have contributed to periodic shortages of supply of copper, and such shortages 16 may increase in the future. Furthermore, there are a limited number of copper suppliers. If we are unable to maintain good relations with our copper suppliers or if there are any business interruptions at our copper suppliers, we may not have access to a sufficient supply of copper. Although we have not experienced any shortages during recent years that have had a significant impact on our operations, no assurance can be given that we will be able to procure adequate supplies of copper and copper rod to meet our future production needs and customer demand, which could result in a material loss of customers and revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, supply shortages or disruptions or the loss of suppliers may cause us to procure our copper rod from less cost effective sources and may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations. Other Risks Related to Our Business Our net sales, net income and growth depend largely on the economies in the geographic markets that we serve, and any significant weakening in one or more of these markets could reduce the demand for our products. Many of our customers use our products as components in their own products, systems or networks or in projects undertaken for their customers. Our ability to sell our products is largely dependent on general business, economic and industry conditions, including how much our customers and end-users spend on new construction, maintaining or reconfiguring their communications network, information technology, motors, automobiles and automotive components, appliances and power transmission and distribution infrastructures. If the U.S., European or other economies were to weaken, many companies could significantly reduce their capital equipment and information technology budgets, and construction activity that necessitates the building or modification of communication networks and power transmission and distribution infrastructures could slow considerably. Additionally, reductions in residential or commercial construction could have an adverse effect on demand for motors used in appliance and heating, ventilation and cooling (“HVAC”) systems. This could cause a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations. The increased use of fiber optic cable in the “local loop” may reduce the market for copper OSP products. Through our communications cable segment, we are the largest supplier, based on sales, of copper OSP cables used by the RBOCs and other telephone companies in the local loop portion of the telecommunications infrastructure. Copper OSP is the communications cable segment’s largest product group. However, fiber optic cable, which provides improved bandwidth and transmission speeds as compared to copper cable, has been increasingly deployed in the local exchange network over the past several years. Certain RBOCs have and are continuing to significantly increase the use of fiber optic cable further downstream in their networks, in some cases all the way to the premises. Further increases in the rate of fiber optic replacement could significantly decrease the demand for our copper OSP cable. This decrease could result in a significant decline in sales of copper OSP cable, which would adversely impact our business, revenues and results of operations. Advancing technologies, such as fiber optic and wireless technologies, may make some of our products less competitive. Technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, a significant decrease in the cost and complexity of installation of fiber optic systems or increase in the cost of copper-based systems could make fiber optic systems superior on a price performance basis to copper communications systems and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The superior technological characteristics of fiber optic cable have caused companies increasingly to deploy it in the local loop. Also, competitive alternatives to traditional telephone service, such as wireless and cable telephony and VoIP services, have had a negative impact on the demand for copper OSP wire and cable, 17 and use of these alternatives is expected to increase. Although we sell fiber optic cable and components and cable that is used in certain wireless applications, if fiber optic systems or wireless technology were to significantly erode the markets for copper-based communications systems, our sales of fiber optic cable and products for wireless applications would likely not be sufficient to offset any decrease in sales or profitability of other products that may occur. Continued or accelerated declines in access lines and spending reductions by the telephone industry could adversely affect our business. Our largest customers for the communications cable segment are the RBOCs and major independent telephone operating or holding companies. Approximately 67%, 68% and 66%, respectively, of the 2006, 2005 and 2004 sales of our communications cable segment are attributable to these customers. Competitive alternatives, such as wireless and cable telephony, digital subscriber lines or “DSL”, VoIP services and cable modems have resulted in a loss of access lines and subscribers by the major telephone operating companies. Furthermore, the demand for access lines is impacted by new housing starts. A continued or accelerated decline in access lines resulting from these factors could result in reductions in capital spending by the telephone industry and in the demand for our communications cable products which would adversely impact our business, revenues and results of operations. Our inability to maintain our relationships with key customers and distributors could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our businesses are highly competitive. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with key customers and distributors, we may lose sales, particularly as existing contracts expire or are re-bid. Losses of sales under existing customer contracts, if not replaced by expanding other existing relationships or new relationships, could have a material adverse affect on our business. Consolidation among our customers could result in our losing a customer or experiencing a slowdown as integration takes place. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation. Consolidation may impact our business as our customers focus on integrating their operations. In certain instances, customers engaged in integrating large-scale acquisitions have scaled back their purchases of communications segment products while the integration is ongoing. After a consolidation occurs, there can be no assurance that we will continue to supply equipment to the surviving company. Further, continued consolidation can provide customers with greater purchasing power and negotiating leverage. The impact on our business of significant mergers impacting our customers is likely to be unclear until sometime after such transactions have closed. Migration of magnet wire demand to China may adversely affect our business. Our business may suffer due to the migration of magnet wire demand to China. Our magnet wire and distribution segments’ principal product is magnet wire, which is used primarily in motors for industrial, automotive, appliance and other applications. We currently service the North American and European markets, with limited sales elsewhere. Several of our major magnet wire customers have shifted, or have plans to shift, certain levels of product manufacturing to China. While we recently completed construction of a magnet wire manufacturing facility in China, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in China and /or offset any loss of business that may result from declining demand for our products in North America and Europe due to this shift of customer requirements to China. 18 We may not be able to operate or expand our recently constructed China magnet wire manufacturing facility successfully, which may adversely affect our business. We recently completed initial construction and commenced operation of a wholly-owned “Greenfield” manufacturing facility in China to produce magnet wire for sale to customers with China-based operations. We currently expect to expand the facility in 2007 to add capacity. We face all the risks inherent in operating and expanding a new facility in a new market, particularly in an emerging market like China where we have not previously operated a manufacturing facility, including such risks as those arising from: · unexpected legal, regulatory or governmental requirements or approvals; · operating in a market with a less developed supply chain, transportation and distribution infrastructure; · unfavorable political or economic factors; · our ability to effectively compete in an emerging market; · difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel; and · managing international operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in operating or expanding the production facilities in China. Fluctuations in the supply of certain non-copper raw materials and energy could harm our business. In addition to copper, raw materials we use in the manufacture of our products include aluminum, steel, optical fibers, plastics, such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride, and various chemicals and chemical compounds used in the production of enamels. The natural disasters that hit the Gulf Coast region of the United States in 2005 had a significant effect on raw material producers located in the region or those which rely on oil and natural gas or raw materials produced in the region. In 2005 certain of our raw material suppliers declared force majeure and instituted significant surcharges for energy and other costs. The increased cost of oil has resulted in increased production and freight costs and periodic shortages in the availability of shipping resources. The markets for these key raw materials and resources are extremely tight and are forecasted to remain so for the near term. There can be no assurance that we will be able to procure adequate supplies of our essential raw materials to meet our future needs or that we can increase prices for our products in amounts sufficient to offset increases in the costs of raw materials, energy and freight. Our inability to compete with other manufacturers in the wire and cable industry could harm our business. The market for wire and cable products is highly competitive. Each of our businesses competes with at least one major competitor. Many of our products are made to industry specifications and, therefore, may be interchangeable with competitors’ products. We are subject to competition on the basis of price, delivery time, customer service and our ability to meet specialty needs. Some of our competitors are larger and may have greater resources, financial and otherwise, than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. 19 Our customer base in our communications cable and copper rod segments is highly concentrated, and a loss of a major customer could substantially impact the financial performance of these segments. Our customer base for our communications cable and copper rod segments is highly concentrated, and, therefore, a limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of our net sales in any year in those segments. The loss of or reduced demand for products or related services from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations. Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business to generate future cash flow. Our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2006 was $324.0 million. We may also incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of our common stock. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · increase the amount of interest expense that we have to pay, because we increase the principal amount or because some of our borrowings (approximately $39.5 million outstanding as of December 31, 2006) are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; · increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; or · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. We may be unable to meet our covenant obligations under our senior secured revolving credit facility which could adversely affect our business. Our operations depend on the availability and cost of working capital financing and may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost of such financing. Our senior secured revolving credit facility contains covenants that we may not be able to meet. If we cannot meet these covenants, events of default would arise, which could result in payment of the applicable indebtedness being accelerated and a cross default to our other indebtedness. In addition, if we require working capital greater than that provided by our senior secured revolving credit facility, we may be required either to (1) seek to increase the availability under the senior secured revolving credit facility, (2) obtain other sources of financing or (3) reduce our operations. There can be no assurance that any amendment of our senior secured revolving credit facility or replacement financing would be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a new credit facility with acceptable terms upon expiration of our senior secured revolving credit facility. We may be unable to raise additional capital to meet capital expenditure needs if our operations do not generate sufficient funds to do so. Our business is expected to have continuing capital expenditure needs. While we anticipate that our operations will generate sufficient funds to meet our capital expenditure needs for the foreseeable future, our ability to gain access to additional capital, if needed, cannot be assured. If we are unable to obtain 20 additional capital on acceptable terms, our business, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit plans may require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. Funding for the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor is based upon the funded status of the plans and a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on assets and discount rate. Benefit accruals under our defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees and for eligible employees who are not included in a unit of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement were frozen as of January 22, 2004. Due to declining returns in the investment portfolio of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans in prior years, our funded U.S. defined benefit plans were underfunded as of December 31, 2006 by approximately $23.5 million, based on the actuarial methods and assumptions utilized for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 87. Our required cash contributions for 2007 are expected to be approximately $8.3 million. In the event that actual returns differ negatively from the actuarial assumptions, the funded status of our defined benefit plans may change and any such deficiency could result in additional charges to equity and against earnings and increase our required cash contributions. If we are unable to retain senior management, our business operations could be adversely affected. Our success and future prospects depend on the continued contributions of our senior management. There can be no assurances that we would be able to find qualified replacements for these individuals if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team, and the process of integrating their replacements, could severely disrupt our operations. Failure to negotiate extensions of our labor agreements as they expire may result in a disruption of our operations. Approximately 20% of our U.S. employees are represented by various labor unions, all of which work in our North American magnet wire and distribution and copper rod segments. Labor agreements covering approximately 9% of our U.S. employees (18% of our North American magnet wire and distribution and copper rod employees) expire during 2007. We cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning such issues will be successfully concluded. A protracted work stoppage could result in a disruption of our operations which could adversely affect our ability to deliver certain products and results of operations. The designation of Essex Nexans as an unrestricted subsidiary under our 9% note indenture and exclusion of Essex Nexans as a subsidiary under our credit agreement may have an adverse impact on our operations. In order to assure continued compliance with the indenture governing our 9% senior notes, we have designated Essex Nexans as an “unrestricted subsidiary” under that indenture, meaning that Essex Nexans is not subject to many of the covenants under that indenture. In addition, Essex Nexans is not considered a “subsidiary” subject to the restrictions under our credit facility. As a result, we and Essex Nexans must operate as separate business entities, which can have a number of implications, including the following: · We cannot fully integrate the operations of Essex Nexans with that of Superior Essex Inc. and our other subsidiaries, and as a result, the costs of operating Essex Nexans may be higher and the expected operational synergies may not be sustainable. 21 · If Essex Nexans were to require additional capital, we could contribute capital only if we could meet the tests for restricted payments or permitted investments under our indenture and our senior secured revolving credit facility. Thus, Essex Nexans may be entirely reliant on its own sources of working capital to fund its operations, which may limit its ability to pursue strategic growth opportunities, including acquisitions. · If availability under our credit facility falls below specified levels, borrowings under our credit facility will not be available to fund the operation of Essex Nexans, and generally speaking we are not able to guarantee its debt. As a result, Essex Nexans may have to rely on its own credit, which could increase our consolidated borrowing costs and could otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. · In the event contributions are needed to fund losses at Essex Nexans, any payments we make could deplete our restricted payments and permitted investment capacity under our indenture and senior secured revolving credit facility, preventing those sources from being available for other uses. · Essex Nexans is under no obligation to make distributions to us. · Despite the separation of the operations, if Essex Nexans is not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on the perception of Superior Essex Inc. and our North American magnet wire business and its prospects in the eyes of customers, employees, suppliers, creditors and vendors. Essex Nexans’ dependence on its continuing relationship with Nexans may expose Essex Nexans to additional risks to its operations. Essex Nexans has a number of continuing relationships with Nexans, including exclusive arrangements for the purchase of Essex Nexans’ pre-drawn wire needs through 2008, exclusive arrangements for the purchase of copper rod in France and a significant majority of its copper rod needs in Germany through 2008, leases of manufacturing facilities in shared locations with Nexans at Chauny and Bramsche and research and development services. If Nexans does not provide these goods and services, Essex Nexans may be required to obtain these goods and services from other sources or internally develop the capability to provide these goods and services. We may be unable to obtain or provide such goods and services at the same or similar costs and terms as those provided by Nexans, and the Essex Nexans business, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, Essex Nexans has a factoring agreement with a third-party financial institution pursuant to which Essex Nexans may assign eligible accounts to the factoring institution in exchange for advances on the anticipated customer collections on the assigned receivables. The factoring agreement provides that the financing party can terminate the arrangement if Nexans’ equity interest in Essex Nexans falls below established thresholds. If the factoring agreement were terminated, we may be unable to gain access to additional financing on favorable terms and the Essex Nexans business, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Consent of Nexans may be required for certain actions we believe are necessary or desirable for us and/or Essex Nexans, including transactions with us which represent a conflict transaction under French law, an increase or reduction in capital of Essex Nexans, certain sales or dispositions of Essex Nexans production assets to us, a merger of Essex Nexans or joint ventures or strategic alliances in which Essex Nexans is not the controlling entity. If consent is withheld, we may be unable to pursue strategies we believe to be in our best interests. 22 Our revenues, operating income and net income are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations due to the seasonal nature of our business, which makes it more difficult for investors and analysts to make meaningful comparisons of our interim quarterly results. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales, operating income and net income during the year due to the following factors: · seasonal reductions in demand by our communications cable segment customers during the first and fourth quarters due to the cold weather seasons in North America; · fourth quarter holiday related plant shutdowns of major OEM customers of our magnet wire and distribution segments; and · seasonal decrease in sales volumes in Europe during the third quarter summer holiday season, which impacts our European magnet wire and distribution segment. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our interim financial results are typically not indicative of results for the entire fiscal year. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We cannot assure you as to the market price for our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market under the trading symbol SPSX. The market price of our common stock will be subject to significant fluctuation in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial analysts in their estimates of our future earnings, conditions in the economy in general or in the wire and cable industry in particular, copper commodity prices and other factors beyond our control. No assurance can be given as to the market price for our common stock. Our operating results can fluctuate significantly from period to period. If we miss financial expectations, our stock price could decline. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating results in some periods may be below investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly earnings may be caused by many factors, including without limitation: · the volume and timing of orders from and shipments to our customers; · customer inventories; · work stoppages, raw material shortages and other developments affecting the operations of our customers; · market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services; · variations in the mix of products and services we sell; and · the location and utilization of our production capacity and employees. Our dividend policies and other restrictions on the payment of dividends may prevent the payment of dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, covenants in our debt instruments restrict our ability to pay cash dividends and may prohibit the payment of non-cash dividends and certain other payments. 23 Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions, including those providing for the possible issuance of preferred stock and limiting the ability of stockholders to nominate directors, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 