Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our current business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If we do not generate a sufficient amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control, our liquidity and our ability to service our indebtedness and fund our operations would be harmed. We believe that our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our credit facilities will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs. However, we have substantial debt service obligations, working capital needs and contractual commitments. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to us under credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our existing indebtedness, fund our expansion efforts or fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, adverse changes in any of the measures above may impact the value of the goodwill or other intangible assets on our balance sheet by causing us to write-down or write-off the balance completely. Changes in applicable laws and regulations governing consumer protection and lending practices, both domestically and abroad, may have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous state and certain federal and foreign laws and regulations which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand our business. These regulations govern or affect: • check cashing fees; • licensing and posting of fees; • lending practices, such as truth in lending and installment and single-payment lending; • interest rates and usury; • loan amount and fee limitations; • currency reporting; • privacy of personal consumer information; and • prompt remittance of proceeds for the sale of money orders. As we develop and introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, future legislation or regulations may restrict our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations and may have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, local and federal governments may seek to impose new licensing requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. Our business is also subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings, which could generate adverse publicity or cause us to incur substantial expenditures or modify the way we conduct our business. Various anti-cash advance legislation has been proposed or introduced in the U.S. Congress. Congressional members continue to receive pressure from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups to adopt such legislation. Any U.S. federal legislative or regulatory action that severely restricts or 23 prohibits cash advance and similar services, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Currently our check cashing and consumer lending activities are subject to only limited substantive regulation in Canada other than usury laws. The Canadian Parliament has recently transferred jurisdiction and the refinement of laws and regulation of our industry’s consumer loan products to the respective provinces. There can be no assurance that the new regulations that may be adopted would not have a detrimental effect on our consumer lending business in Canada. Historically our Canadian consumer lending activities were subject to provincial licensing in Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Newfoundland. A federal usury ceiling applies to loans we make to Canadian customers. Such borrowers historically contract to repay us in cash; if they elect to repay by check, we also collect, in addition to a permissible finance charge, our customary check-cashing fees. Effective May 3, 2007, the Canadian Parliament amended the federal usury law to transfer jurisdiction and the development of laws and regulations of our industry’s consumer loan products to the respective provinces. To date, the provinces of British Columbia, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick have all passed laws to regulate short term consumer lenders and each are in process with regulations and rates. Alberta is currently working on changes to their existing Consumer Protection legislation to also regulate short term consumer lenders. In general, such regulations are similar to those in effect in the United States, which require lenders to be licensed, set maximum limits on the charges to the consumer for a loan and regulate collection practices. In the United Kingdom, our consumer lending activities must comply with the Consumer Credit Act of 1974 and related rules and regulations which, among other things, require us to obtain governmental licenses and prescribe the presentation, form and content of loan agreements. The modification of existing laws or regulations in Canada and the United Kingdom, or the adoption of new laws or regulations restricting or imposing more stringent requirements on our international check cashing and consumer lending activities, could increase our operating expenses and significantly limit our international business activities. Public perception and press coverage of single-payment consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. Consumer advocacy groups and some legislators have recently advocated governmental action to prohibit or severely restrict certain types of short-term consumer lending. Typically the consumer groups, some legislators and press coverage focus on lenders that charge consumers interest rates and fees that are higher than those charged by credit card issuers to more creditworthy consumers. This difference in credit cost may become more significant if a consumer does not repay the loan promptly, but renews the loan for one or more additional short-term periods. These types of short-term single-payment loans are often characterized by consumer groups, some legislators and press coverage as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If consumers accept this negative characterization of certain single-payment consumer loans and believe that the loans we provide to our customers fit this characterization, demand for our loans could significantly decrease, which could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. If our estimates of loan losses are not adequate to absorb losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for anticipated losses on company-funded loans and loans in default. To estimate the appropriate level of loan loss reserves, we consider known and relevant internal and external factors that affect loan collectability, including the amount of outstanding loans owed to us, historical loans charged off, current collection patterns and current economic trends. Our current allowance for loan losses is based on our charge-offs, expressed as a percentage of loan amounts originated for the last twelve months applied against the principal balance of outstanding loans. As of June 30, 2009, our allowance for loan losses on company-funded consumer loans that were not in default was $9.2 million and our allowance for losses on loans in default was $17.0 million. These reserves, however, are estimates, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than our loan loss reserves, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 24 Legal proceedings may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows in future periods. We are currently subject to a number of legal proceedings. We are vigorously defending these proceedings. In addition, we are likely to be subject to further legal proceedings in the future. The resolution of any current or future legal proceeding could cause us to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay damages or other monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate our operations in particular local and federal jurisdictions. We may also be subject to adverse publicity. Defense of any legal proceedings, even if successful, requires substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and requires the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in the financial services industry could cause us to lose market share and revenues. The industry in which we operate is highly fragmented and very competitive. In addition, we believe that the market will become more competitive as the industry consolidates. In addition to other check cashing stores and consumer lending stores in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, we compete with banks and other financial services entities and retail businesses that cash checks, offer consumer loans, sell money orders, provide money transfer services or offer other products and services offered by us. Some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline, thereby affecting our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Unexpected changes in foreign tax rates and political and economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results. We currently conduct significant check cashing and consumer lending activities internationally. Our foreign subsidiaries accounted for 70.6% of our total revenues during fiscal 2009 and 73.1% of our total revenues during fiscal 2008. Our financial results may be negatively impacted to the extent tax rates in foreign countries where we operate increase and/or exceed those in the United States and as a result of the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings. Risk and uncertainties related to political and economic conditions in foreign countries in which we operate could negatively impact our operations. We currently conduct significant check cashing and consumer lending activities internationally. If political, regulatory or economic conditions deteriorate in these countries, our ability to conduct our international operations could be limited and our costs could be increased. Moreover, actions or events could occur in these countries that are beyond our control, which could restrict or eliminate our ability to operate in such jurisdictions or significantly reduce product demand and the expected profitability of such operations. The international scope of our operations may contribute to increased costs and negatively impact our operations. Our operations in Canada and the United Kingdom are significant to our business and present risks which may vary from those we face domestically. At June 30, 2009, assets held by our foreign subsidiaries represented 68.6% of our total assets. Since international operations increase the complexity of an organization, we may face additional administrative costs in managing our business. In addition, most countries typically impose additional burdens on non-domestic companies through the use of local regulations, tariffs and labor controls. Unexpected changes to the foregoing could negatively impact our operations. 25 Foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations. We derive significant revenue, earnings and cash flow from our operations in Canada and the United Kingdom. Our results of operations are vulnerable to currency exchange rate fluctuations in the Canadian dollar and the British pound against the United States dollar. We estimate that a 10.0% change in foreign exchange rates by itself would have impacted reported pre-tax earnings from continuing operations (exclusive in fiscal 2009 of litigation expense of approximately $57.9 million, loss on store closings of approximately $10.3 million and an unrealized foreign exchange gain of approximately $5.5 million) by approximately $9.2 million for fiscal 2009 and $9.1 million for fiscal 2008. This impact represents 11.6% of our consolidated foreign pre-tax earnings for fiscal 2009 and 10.5% of our consolidated foreign pre-tax earnings for fiscal 2008. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to the level of transactions effected by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could be affected negatively by a general economic slowdown. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from cashing checks. Revenues from check cashing accounted for 31.2% of our total revenues during fiscal 2009 and 34.4% of our total revenues during fiscal 2008. Any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer transactions and employment could reduce the volume of transactions that we process and have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. If the national and world-wide financial crisis continues, potential disruptions in the credit markets may negatively impact the availability and cost of short-term borrowing under our credit facility, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If internal funds are not available from our operations and after utilizing our excess cash we may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during 2008 and 2009 could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under that credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. In addition, the effects of the global recession and its effects on our operations and the translational effects of our foreign operations, could cause us to have difficulties in complying with our credit agreements. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our ability to refinance our existing credit facilities on favorable terms, if at all. The lack of availability under, and the inability to subsequently refinance, our credit facilities, could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and reducing or eliminating other discretionary uses of cash. Our business model for our legal document processing services business is being challenged in the courts, as well as by state legislatures, which could result in our discontinuation of these services in any one or more jurisdictions. Our business model for our legal document processing services business is being challenged in various states and, at the federal level, by various United States bankruptcy trustees, as the unauthorized practice of law. A finding in any of these pending lawsuits and proceedings that our legal document processing services business model constitutes the unauthorized practice of law could result in our discontinuation of these services in any one or more jurisdictions. Future legislative and regulatory activities and court orders may restrict our ability to continue our current legal document processing services business model or expand its use. For example, there have been recent efforts by various trade and state bar associations and state legislatures and regulators, such as in 26 Massachusetts, Colorado and Missouri to define the practice of law in a manner which would prohibit the preparation of legal documents by non-attorneys or prohibit non-attorneys from offering for sale certain legal documents. Changes in local rules and regulations such as local zoning ordinances could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business can be subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations. Any actions taken in the future by local zoning boards or other local governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on, our ability to provide products and services could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations or relocate existing stores. A reduction in demand for our products and services and failure by us to adapt to such reduction could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The demand for a particular product or service we offer may be reduced due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that decrease customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers’ preferences or financial conditions. Should we fail to adapt to significant changes in our customers’ demand for, or access to, our products or services, our revenues could decrease significantly and our operations could be harmed. Even if we do make changes to existing products or services or introduce new products or services to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject such products or services. Moreover, the effect of any product change on the results of our business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time and by that time it may be too late to make further modifications to such product or service without causing further harm to our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to manage our growth effectively. Our expansion strategy, which contemplates the addition of new stores and the acquisition of competitor stores, is subject to significant risks. Our continued growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of experienced management employees, the availability of adequate financing for our expansion activities, the ability to successfully transition acquired stores or their historical customer base to our operating platform, the ability to obtain any government permits and licenses that may be required and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully grow our business or that our current business, results of operations and financial condition will not suffer if we are unable to do so. Expansion beyond the geographic areas where the stores are presently located will increase demands on management and divert their attention. In addition, expansion into new products and services will present new challenges to our business and will require additional management time. Our ability to open and acquire new stores is subject to outside factors and circumstances over which we have limited control or that are beyond our control which could adversely affect our growth potential. Our expansion strategy includes acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous outside factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of acceptable business locations, the ability to access capital to acquire and open such stores and the ability to obtain required permits and licenses. We have limited control, and in some cases, no control, over these factors. Moreover, the start-up costs and the losses we likely would incur from initial operations attributable to each newly opened store place demands upon our liquidity and cash flow, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these demands. The failure to execute our expansion strategy would adversely affect our ability to expand our business and could materially adversely affect our revenue, profitability and results of operations. 27 If we do not successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations, our performance and results of operations could be negatively affected. We have historically grown through strategic acquisitions and a key component of our growth strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities. The success of our acquisitions is dependent, in part, upon our effectively integrating the management, operations and technology of acquired businesses into our existing management, operations and technology platforms, of which there can be no assurance. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our organization could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our check cashing services may further diminish because of technological advances. We derive a significant component of our revenues from fees associated with cashing payroll, government and personal checks. Recently, there has been increasing penetration of electronic banking services into the check cashing and money transfer industry, including direct deposit of payroll checks and electronic transfer of government benefits. To the extent that checks received by our customer base are replaced with such electronic transfers, demand for our check cashing services could decrease. Our business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues and earnings to fluctuate. Our business is seasonal due to the impact of several tax-related services, including cashing tax refund checks, making electronic tax filings and processing applications for refund anticipation loans. Historically, we have generally experienced our highest revenues and earnings during the third fiscal quarter ending March 31 when revenues from these tax-related services peak. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our financial results would be adversely impacted and our ability to service our debt, including our ability to make interest payments on our debt, may also be adversely affected. Because we maintain a significant supply of cash in our stores, we may be subject to cash shortages due to robbery, employee error and theft. Since our business requires us to maintain a significant supply of cash in each of our stores, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from robberies as well as employee errors and theft. Although we have implemented various programs to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for theft and provide security, systems and processes for our employees and facilities, we cannot assure you that robberies, employee error and theft will not occur and lead to cash shortages that could adversely affect our results of operations. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the members of our senior management team, which have been instrumental in procuring capital to assist us in executing our growth strategies, identifying and negotiating domestic and international acquisitions and providing expertise in managing our developing international operations. The loss of the services of one or more members of senior management could harm our business and future development. Our continued growth also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain the requisite personnel as needed in the future, our operating results and growth could suffer. A catastrophic event at our corporate or international headquarters or our centralized call-center facilities in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our global business management processes are primarily provided from our corporate headquarters in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, and our operations headquarters in Victoria, British Columbia, Nottingham, England and a satellite office in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. We also maintain a centralized call-center facility in Salt 28 Lake City, Utah that performs customer service, collection and loan-servicing functions for our consumer lending business, as well as similar facilities in Victoria, British Columbia, Nottingham, England and a satellite office in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. We have in place disaster recovery plans for each of these sites, including data redundancy and remote information back-up systems, but if any of these locations were severely damaged by a catastrophic event, such as a flood, significant power outage or act of terror, our operations could be significantly disrupted and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our business operations. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our stores and business. Each store is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Our back-up systems and security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in our information systems. Any disruption in our information systems could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In the event that our cash flow from operations are not sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs, a portion of the goodwill on our balance sheet could become impaired, which could significantly impact our total shareholders’ equity. In the event that our cash flow from operations are not sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs, a portion of the goodwill on our balance sheet could become impaired as the fair value of our goodwill is estimated based upon a present value technique using discounted future cash flows. The balance of our goodwill as of June 30, 2009 of $406.6 million exceeded total shareholders’ equity of $171.3 million. As a result, a decrease to our cash flow from operations could result in a charge that significantly impacts the balance of our total shareholders’ equity. Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Over the course of the twelve months ended June 30, 2009, the market price of our common stock has been as high as $21.91, and as low as $4.83. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, changes in applicable laws and regulations governing consumer protection and lending practices, the effects of litigation, future sales of common stock and general stock market price and volume fluctuations. In addition, general political and economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the common stock of many companies, including our common stock. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 29 Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • a board of directors that is classified such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the transaction may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Risks Relating to Our Outstanding Convertible Notes Any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results and could adversely affect the trading price of our securities, including our common stock and the 2.875% Senior Convertible Notes due 2027. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement of the excess of the conversion value over the principal amount, if any, and meeting specified requirements under Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00-19, “Convertible Bonds with Issuer Option to Settle for Cash upon Conversion,” is accounted for in a manner similar to nonconvertible debt, with the stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable upon conversion of the security being accounted for under the treasury stock method. The effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of our 2.875% Senior Convertible Notes due 2027 are not included in the calculation of our earnings per share until the conversion price is “in the money,” and we are assumed to issue the number of shares of common stock necessary to settle. We cannot predict any other changes in generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, that may be made affecting accounting for convertible debt securities. Any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results. These impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our securities, including our common stock and the 2.875% Senior Convertible Notes due 2027. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 