Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Future Results, Forward-Looking Information And Certain Important Factors In this report we make, and from time to time we will otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and its prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. -11- Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors include the risk factors below. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Form 10-K before purchasing any of our common stock. If any of the events described in the risk factors below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer significantly. In such case, the value of your investment could decline and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related To Our Business Disruptions in the capital and credit markets related to the current national and worldwide financial crisis, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. The current disruptions in the capital and credit markets may continue indefinitely or intensify, and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. These disruptions could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility, which is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rate. Such disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our products and services have relied on a few industries. We may not be able to increase the market for our products and services in other industries. Presently, our products and services are mainly sold to the iron and steel, traditional power generation, petrochemical and nuclear power industries. Our products and services, therefore, depend heavily on a limited number of industries. Our growth potential may be limited if we cannot expand the market for our products and services. Although we have increased our research and development to expand the range of application of our products and services, there is no assurance that we will succeed in our effort. -12- Price increases of raw materials such as copper and steel could increase the cost of our products and reduce our profit margin. Copper is the major material for our linear heat detectors and stainless steel is the major material for our fire extinguishing nozzles. In the last two years, the prices of copper and steel have fluctuated substantially as have other raw materials. Although we have managed to minimize the impact of such fluctuation in the past by passing the cost increase on to our customers, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. If the price for copper and steel increases more significantly and we cannot increase our selling price, our profit margin could decrease significantly. We may not be able to secure financing needed for future operating needs on acceptable terms, or on any terms at all. From time to time, we may seek additional financing to provide the capital required to maintain or expand our design and production facilities, research and development initiatives and equipment and/or working capital, as well as repay outstanding loans if cash flow from operations is insufficient to do so. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or amount of any such capital requirements. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business as the rate desired, and our operating results may suffer. If we are able to incur debt, we may be subject to certain restrictions imposed by the terms of the debt and the repayment of such debt may limit our cash flow and our ability to grow. If we are unable to incur debt, we may be forced to issue additional equity, which could have a dilutive effect of the then current holders of equity. Our strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives. Currently, we have agreements with two multinational companies to supply our linear heat detectors. We are negotiating with another company to enter into a similar agreement. The strategic alliances are intended to enhance or complement our technology or work in conjunction with our technology, increase our manufacturing capacity, provide additional components or materials, and develop, introduce and distribute products using our technology and know-how. If these alliances do not achieve their objectives or parties to our strategic alliances do not perform as contemplated, our growth may be adversely affected. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure impeding our ability to meet any increased demand for our products and services and possibly hurting our operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for our products and services products. Our planned growth includes the increase of our line of products and expansion of sales in our existing markets as well as entry into new markets over the next few years. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · the continued acceptance of our products and services by the iron and steel, power and petrochemical industries; · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; · rapid technological change; and · the highly competitive nature of the industrial fire safety industry. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products and service, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products and services to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Meeting any such increased demands will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to purchase raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which we provide our products and services. Such demands would require more capital and working capital than we currently have available and we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers. -13- Our business depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property effectively. If any of our patents are not protected, or any of our trade secrets are divulged, we may lose our competitive edge. The success of our business depends in substantial measure on the legal protection of the patents and other proprietary rights in the technology we hold. We hold issued patents and pending patent applications in China related to technologies important to our business. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property and know-how in China where, in comparison to the Untied States, the laws may be difficult to enforce to fully protect our proprietary rights. The validity and breadth of claims in patents and trade secrets involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications or trade secrets may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that our competitors have not developed or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements. If these contractual measures fail to protect our proprietary rights, any advantage those proprietary rights provided to us would be negated. Some of our products are based on formulas. The formulas are maintained as trade secrets and are revealed only to a small number of technical and management personnel. The trade secrets provide us with a competitive edge in the linear heat technology and to the best of our knowledge, no other manufacturers have successfully developed such technology. If any of the trade secrets are divulged, we could lose our competitive edge in the linear heat technology and others. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers. Our business will be harmed if our customers reduce their orders from us or if significant orders are not completed successfully. A significant amount of our revenues are derived from only a small number of customers mainly in the iron and steel, traditional power, petrochemical and nuclear power industries. No customer individually accounted for more than 20% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. In aggregate, our five largest customers in our total solutions and products businesses accounted for approximately 39% and 27%, respectively, of our revenues from these segments in fiscal 2009. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer stops purchasing our products. If we lose any customers and are unable to replace them with other customers that purchase a similar amount of our products and services, our revenues and net income would decline considerably. In February 2010, we entered into an agreement with Wuhan Iron and Steel (Group) Corporation ("WISCO"), pursuant to which we have agreed to complete the retrofitting total solution project of the fire protection facilities for WISCO’s thirty-two plants located in Qingshan, Hubei Province, by the end of 2011 for approximately $92 million. We believe that this total solution project for WISCO will account for a significant portion of our total revenue in the near future. Any unexpected disruption or slowdown in the execution of the obligations of this agreement could result in a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause us to fall short of our financial guidance in the future. We extend relatively long payment terms for accounts receivable. If any of our customers fails to pay us, our revenues may be affected as a result. Our standard practice is to charge our customers 10%-30% of the contract amount up front and collect the balance according to a schedule based on the progress of a project. However, many of our customers are state-owned enterprises and may be slow in their payment process. As a result of the size of many of our contracts, their delayed payments adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations out of our operating cash flow. In addition, although we attempt to establish appropriate reserves for our receivables, those reserves may not prove to be adequate in view of actual levels of bad debts. The failure of our customers to pay us in a timely manner could negatively affect our working capital, which could, in turn, adversely affect our cash flow. Although, on occasion payments have been delayed, no customer has failed to pay us however, there is no assurance that they will be able to pay in the future. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly Mr. Gangjin Li, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian Lin, our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Weishe Zhang, our Vice President of Strategic Planning, Mr. Robert Yuan, our Principal Accounting Officer and Mr. Weigang Li, our Vice President of Sales. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our Company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving our Company is high and could disrupt our operations. -14- We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strains or diverts our resources. We may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of related businesses and assets. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions present risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance, including: · the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; · the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and · the need to expand management, administration, and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions we cannot predict whether: · we will be able to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of any new businesses into our business; · we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or · there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions, including potential costs associated with environmental liabilities undiscovered at the time of acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: · potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; · the incurrence of additional debt; · restructuring charges; and · the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and amortization related to intangible assets. We will incur increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we will need to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by The NASDAQ Capital Market, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to their requirements. We may not be able to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, a failure which may prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results or detecting and preventing fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities law. Beginning with our annual report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be required to prepare a management report on our internal control over financial reporting containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to the effectiveness or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. -15- Risks Related To Our Industry Our market will open to foreign companies. China’s commitments under the WTO (World Trade Organization) may intensify competition. In connection with its accession to the WTO, China made many commitments including opening its markets to foreign products and services, allowing foreign companies to conduct distribution businesses and reducing customs duties. As a result, foreign manufacturers may ship more industrial fire safety products into China or they may establish manufacturing facilities and service centers in China. Competition from foreign companies may squeeze our profit margins and our business results will suffer as a result. The fire protection total solution market is fragmented and susceptible to consolidation, which could adversely affect us. We engage in providing fire protection total solutions that consist of the design and installation of fire safety systems. The market is fragmented in the sense that there are many, typically small, suppliers. The market may be subject to consolidation and, if so, we may not be a major player. If so, our fire protection total solution business could suffer and this business is a major source of sales of our own products and profitability. Our customers will decrease their capital expenditure if China’s economy slows down. Such a slowdown may affect our growth. Our industry is cyclical in nature and highly dependent on economic conditions. Over the last three decades, China’s economy has been growing at an average annual rate of 9-10%. There can be no assurance that China’s economy will continue to grow at such pace in the future. If the economy slows down, our customers will cut their capital expenditure and, hence, order less of our products and services. Our growth may suffer as a result. High margins for the industrial fire safety business will attract more businesses to enter this field. Our business could suffer as a result of more competition. So far, our business has enjoyed relatively high profit margins due to the fact that we have concentrated in industrial fire safety. Such high margins will attract more businesses to enter into this field. As a result, competition may intensify and our profits may drop significantly. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other industrial fire safety products companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business will suffer. The market for our products and services is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. Our products and services compete with a multitude of products and services developed, manufactured and marketed by others and we expect competition from new market entrants in the future, including as a result of the WTO. Existing or future competing products may provide better quality and technology, greater utility or lower cost or other benefits from their intended uses than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business could suffer. Gross margins could be lower in new industrial sectors. We enjoy relatively high margins in our main markets including iron and steel, power generation and petrochemical. As we start bidding for projects in new industrial sectors including subways, highway tunnels, and nuclear plants, we might not be able to sell our products at the gross margins that we enjoy in our main markets. Our overall gross margin could be adversely affected. Risks Related To Doing Business in China Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: · level of government involvement in the economy; · control of foreign exchange; -16- · methods of allocating resources; · balance of payments position; · international trade restrictions; · international conflict; and · tax policy. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. The economic reforms in China have been conducted under a tight grip of the Chinese government. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign shareholders, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our operating subsidiaries are incorporated in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China, and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed upon under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. As a result of all of the above, our public stockholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation doing business entirely within the United States. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China has only recently permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. -17- Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from natural and man-made disasters, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that may occur. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited commercial insurance products. We carry auto insurance on our vehicles. We do not carry any product liability insurance or property insurance on our office buildings, our industrial sites or other property. We believe that current facilities are adequate for our current and immediately foreseeable operating needs. We do not have any policies regarding investments in real estate, securities or other forms of property. We have determined that balancing the risks of disruption or liability from our business, or the loss or damage to our property, including our facilities and equipment, the cost of insuring for these risks on the one hand, and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms on the other hand, makes it impractical for us to have such insurance. Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, or any acts of terrorism occur in city of Beijing, PRC, where our primary operations are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere, we might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, and/or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Cessation of the income tax reduction and exemption for our subsidiaries may have an adverse impact on our net profits. From January 1, 2008, under new Chinese income tax law, a company would ordinarily be subject to the PRC income tax rates of 25%. However, the law also provides tax exemption or reduction for high-tech businesses and foreign invested enterprises (“FIE”). As a result, some of our subsidiaries are currently enjoying a tax reduction of and/or exemption from state and local income tax. For details, please see the income taxes section of “Management Discussion and Analysis.” If the Chinese government decides to change the tax law, our revenues and profit could suffer. A new Chinese law may impact our ability to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (“SASAC”), the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “New M&A Rule”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore Special Purpose Ventures, or SPVs, formed after the effective date, for overseas listing purposes, through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. -18- The Company intends to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses in the future. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the current or future PRC laws and regulations, including the New M&A Rule and these uncertainties could make it difficult or impossible to make acquisitions of Chinese businesses in the future. Foreign investment policy changes may adversely affect our income and results of operations. On March 16, 2007, China's parliament, the National People's Congress, adopted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008. The new income tax law sets unified income tax rates for domestic and foreign companies at 25 percent and abolishes the favorable policy for foreign invested enterprises. After January 1, 2008, newly established foreign invested enterprises will not enjoy favorable tax treatment permitted under prior tax laws. Some of our subsidiaries are benefiting from the preferred tax rates for foreign companies and will follow the new tax rate when their respective term of preferred tax rates expires. Our net income margin will be affected at that time. If the government changes its policies on the value added tax rebate, our revenues and profit could be adversely affected. Under Chinese tax law, businesses should pay a value added tax at a 17% rate. To support the development of the software industry, the Chinese government has instituted policies to rebate value added tax charged for software certified by the government up to 14%. As a result, our subsidiary Hua An Limited, is paying its value added tax at an effective rate of 3% for the software they sell. However, the Chinese government changes its policies from time to time. If the Chinese government changes the policies currently in place for the value added tax rebate, our revenues and our profit could suffer. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our Common Stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our Common Stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our Common Stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Risks Related to the Market for Our Stock The trading prices of many companies that have business operations only in China have been volatile which may result in large fluctuations in the price of our Common Stock and losses for shareholders. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many companies that have business operations only in China. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of these companies could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. The market price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; · announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; · additions or terminations of coverage of our Common Stock by securities analysts; · statements by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; · conditions or trends in the our industry; and, -19- · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other industrial fire safety companies. The prices at which our Common Stock trades will affect our ability to raise capital, which may have an adverse affect on our ability to fund our operations. Our Common Stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” and, as such, the market for our Common Stock may be further limited by certain SEC rules applicable to penny stocks. To the extent the price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, we have net tangible assets of $2,000,000 or less, or if we fall below certain other thresholds, our common shares will be subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC. Those rules impose certain sales practice requirements on brokers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000). For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Furthermore, the penny stock rules generally require, among other things, that brokers engaged in secondary trading of penny stocks provide customers with written disclosure documents, monthly statements of the market value of penny stocks, disclosure of the bid and asked prices and disclosure of the compensation to the brokerage firm and disclosure of the sales person working for the brokerage firm. These rules and regulations adversely affect the ability of brokers to sell our common shares and limit the liquidity of our securities. We do not intend to pay any dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, to finance our current and proposed business activities and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We may also incur indebtedness in the future that may prohibit or effectively restrict the payment of cash dividends on our Common Stock. Certain stockholders can exert control over the Company and may not make decisions that further the best interests of all stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) together will own an aggregate of approximately 61% of our outstanding Common Stock on a fully diluted basis. Consequently, these stockholders, if they act individually or together, may exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of us and might affect the market price of our Common Stock, even when a change of control may be in the best interest of all stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements which we would not otherwise consider. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the SEC. Item 