Item 1A: Risk Factors Set fourth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from the results contemplated. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business The continuing pressure on the global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions since the second half of 2008, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, volatility in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. We cannot assure you that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. Government stimulus programs for the automotive industry and other industries that we service may increase the volatility of demand for our products. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund operations or refinance maturing obligations as they become due may be constrained. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse 10 Table of Contents global economic conditions, and if the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. Our operating results may be adversely affected if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our customers, distributors, or suppliers, particularly in the automotive industry. We regularly review the financial performance of our customers, distributors and suppliers. However, global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of and increase the credit risk associated with our customers, distributors or suppliers. Customer insolvencies in key industries most affected by the economic downturn, such as the automotive industry, or the financial failure of a large customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our inability to collect our accounts receivable balances. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or a decline in demand from one or more of these customers could have a material negative impact on net sales. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total sales. Our ten largest end customers accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales in 2009. As a result, the loss of, or a reduction in demand from, one or more of these customers, either as a result of industry conditions or specific events relating to a particular customer, could have a material negative impact on net sales. During 2009, our largest customer was Continental Automotive, with revenues of approximately 11% of our total net sales, followed by Motorola, with revenues of approximately 10% of our total net sales (in 2008 revenue from Motorola approximated 23% of our total net sales). As described elsewhere is this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we expect revenues from Motorola to continue to decline commensurate with our decision to wind-down the cellular handset business. No other customer represented more than 10% of our total net sales in 2009. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life-cycles and fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, higher inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past, are currently experiencing these conditions and may experience such downturns in the future. We may not be able to effectively respond to this or future downturns which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs combined with potentially lower revenues may negatively impact our results. The semiconductor industry is characterized by high fixed costs and, notwithstanding our utilization of third-party contract manufacturers, most of our production requirements are met by our own manufacturing facilities. During periods of reduced demand, we are generally faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. During such periods, our fabrication plants do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with this excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales. The market conditions in the future may continue to adversely affect our utilization rates and consequently our future gross margins, and this, in turn, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by competitors; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; 11 Table of Contents • changes in our product mix or customer mix; • intellectual property disputes; • natural disasters, such as floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as interruptions in power supply resulting therefrom or due to other causes; • loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled workers; • the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; • the effects of adverse economic conditions in the United States and international markets, including the current crisis in global credit and financial markets; • the effectiveness of our efforts to refocus our operations and reduce our cost structure; • manufacturing, assembly and test capacity; and, • our ability to hire, retain and motivate key employees to meet the demands of our customers. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could have a material negative impact on our quarterly or annual operating results. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to our research and development and manufacturing costs. If we cannot adjust spending quickly enough to compensate, it could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Winning business is subject to a competitive selection process that can be lengthy and requires us to incur significant expense, and we may not be selected. Even after we win and begin a product design, a customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no sales from a product and adversely affect our results of operations. Our primary focus is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. Because of the rapid rate of technological change, the loss of a design win could result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. In addition, the failure to offer a generation of a product to a particular customer could prevent access to that customer for several years. The risks are particularly pronounced in the automotive market, where there are longer design cycles. Our failure to win a sufficient number of designs could result in lost sales and hurt our competitive position in future selection processes because we may not be perceived as being a technology or industry leader, each of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. After winning a product design for one of our customers, we may still experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of the lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, a delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly and adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue. Finally, if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their equipment, it could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations as the demand for our products falls. We have become dependent on third-party contract manufacturing relationships as part of our asset-light strategy. If our production or manufacturing capacity at one of these facilities is delayed, interrupted or eliminated, we may not be able to satisfy customer demand. We continue to develop outsourcing arrangements for the manufacture and test and assembly of certain products and components. Based on total units produced, we outsourced approximately 23% of our wafer fabrication and approximately 43% of our assembly, packaging and testing in 2009. As a result, we are relying on the utilization of third-party contract manufacturers and assembly and test capacity. If production or manufacturing capacity is delayed, reduced or eliminated at one or more facilities, with fewer alternative facilities, manufacturing could be disrupted, we could have difficulties or delays in fulfilling our customer orders, and our sales could decline. In addition, if a third-party contract manufacturer fails to deliver quality products and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, and our sales could decline. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. To the extent we rely on alliances and third-party design and/or manufacturing relationships, we face the following risks: • reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs; • manufacturing costs that are higher than anticipated; • inability of our manufacturing partners to develop manufacturing methods and technology appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products; • decline in product reliability; • inability to maintain continuing relationships with our suppliers; and 12 Table of Contents • restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages. In addition, purchasing rather than manufacturing these products may adversely affect our gross profit margin if the purchase costs of these products become higher than our own manufacturing costs would have been. Our internal manufacturing costs include depreciation and other fixed costs, while costs for products outsourced are based on market conditions. Prices for foundry products also vary depending on capacity utilization rates at our suppliers, quantities demanded, product technology and geometry. Furthermore, these outsourcing costs can vary materially from quarter-to-quarter and, in cases of industry shortages, they can increase significantly, negatively impacting our gross margin. If any of these risks are realized, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain or an increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our revenue or adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to keep pace with technological advances in our industry and associated manufacturing processes, or if we pursue technologies that do not become commercially accepted, our products may not be as competitive, our customers may not buy our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Technology and associated manufacturing processes are an important component of our business and growth strategy. Our success depends to a significant extent on the development, implementation and acceptance of new product designs and improvements. Commitments to develop new products must be made well in advance of any resulting sales. Technologies, standards or manufacturing processes may change during development, potentially rendering our products outdated or uncompetitive before their introduction. Our ability to develop products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements and at prices acceptable to our customers will be significant factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. If we are unable to successfully develop new products, our revenues may decline and our business could be negatively impacted. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, short product lifecycles, significant price erosion and evolving standards. Our growth objectives depend on competitive success and increased market share in our markets. If we fail to keep pace with the rest of the semiconductor industry, we could lose market share in the markets in which we compete. Any such loss in market share could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Although few companies compete with us in all of our product areas, our competitors range from large, international companies offering a full range of products to smaller companies specializing in narrow markets within the semiconductor industry. The competitive environment is also changing as a result of increased alliances among our competitors and through strategic acquisitions. Our competitors may have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we have in a particular market or overall. We expect competition in the markets in which we participate to continue to increase as existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings or as new participants enter our markets. Increased competition may result in reduced profitability and reduced market share. We compete in our different product lines primarily on the basis of price, technology offered, product features, warranty, quality and availability of service, time-to-market and reputation. Our ability to develop new products to meet customer requirements and to meet customer delivery schedules are also critical factors. New products represent the most important opportunity to overcome the increased competition and pricing pressure inherent in the semiconductor industry. If we are unable to keep pace with technology changes, our market share could decrease and our business would be adversely affected. The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A market decline in any of these industries, or particular products in those industries, could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Our growth is dependent, in part, on end-user demand for our customers’ products. Any industry downturns that adversely affect our customers or their customers, including increases in bankruptcies in relevant industries, could adversely affect end-user demand for our customers’ products, which would adversely affect demand for our products. Growth in demand in the markets we serve has in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly based on numerous factors, including: • capital spending levels of our networking customers; • consumer spending; • worldwide automotive production levels; • rate of adoption of new or alternative technologies; • changes in consumer preferences; • changes in regulation of products and services provided; and 13 Table of Contents • general economic conditions. The rate, or extent to which, the industries we serve will grow, if at all, is uncertain. In addition, there can be no assurance that particular products within these industries will experience the growth in demand that we expect. The industries we serve are currently experiencing weak general economic conditions, which could result in slower growth or a decline in demand for our products, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, government stimulus programs for the automotive industry and other industries that we service may increase the volatility of demand for our products. Our automotive customer base is comprised largely of suppliers to U.S. and European automotive manufacturers. Light vehicle production by the Big 3 U.S. automakers declined significantly in 2008 and continued to be below historical levels in 2009. Shifts in demand away from U.S. and European automotive manufacturers or continued lower demand for U.S. and European automobiles could adversely affect our sales. The specific products in which our semiconductors are incorporated may not be successful, or may experience price erosion or other competitive factors that affect the prices manufacturers are willing to pay us. Such customers may vary order levels significantly from period to period, request postponements to scheduled delivery dates, modify their orders or reduce lead times. This is particularly common during times of low demand for those end products. This can make managing our business difficult, as it limits our ability to effectively predict future demand. Furthermore, projected industry growth rates may not be as forecast, resulting in spending on process and product development well ahead of market requirements, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and impair our freedom of operation. We depend significantly on patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our products and proprietary design and fabrication processes against infringement or misappropriation by others. From time to time, third parties may and do assert against us their patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights relating to technologies that are important to our business. Any claims that our products or processes infringe these rights (including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers), regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may not prevail in such proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages (potentially treble damages in the United States); • cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products or processes; • discontinue the use of the infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or may not be available at all; • comply with the terms of import restrictions imposed by the International Trade Commission, or similar administrative or regulatory authority; or • forego the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others. Our use of intellectual property rights is subject to license agreements, some of which contain provisions that may require the consent of the counterparties to remain in effect after a change of control. If we are unable to obtain any required consents under any material license agreements, our rights to use intellectual property licensed under those agreements may be at risk. Any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete or have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or developing or licensing new intellectual property, which may harm our ability to compete and may have a material negative impact on our results of operations. We depend heavily on our rights to protect our technology from infringement and to ensure that we have the ability to generate royalty and other licensing revenues. Revenues are generated from the license of patents and manufacturing technologies to third parties. Our future intellectual property revenues depend in part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio and enforcement efforts, and on the sales and financial stability of our licensees. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as on nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. In the past, we have found it necessary to engage in litigation with other companies to force those companies to execute revenue-bearing license agreements with us or prohibit their use of our intellectual property. Some of these proceedings did, and 14 Table of Contents future proceedings may, require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. In connection with our intellectual property: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property may not be successful; • our existing or future patents may be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented; and • the measures described above may not provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Our trade secrets may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, contractors and other persons. Further, we may not be able to obtain patent protection or secure other intellectual property rights in all the countries in which we operate, and under the laws of such countries, patents and other intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in scope. If any of our patents fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. Any inability on our part to protect adequately our intellectual property may have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations. We sell our products throughout the world. In 2009, 77% of our products were sold in countries other than the United States. In addition, a majority of our operations and employees are located outside of the United States. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of war, terrorist attacks, epidemic or civil unrest; • adverse changes in laws and governmental policies, especially those affecting trade and investment; • pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; • import or export licensing requirements imposed by governments; • foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions; • differing labor standards; • differing levels of protection of intellectual property; • the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; • varying practices of the regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies in the jurisdictions where we operate; and • potentially burdensome taxation and changes in foreign tax laws. International conflicts are creating many economic and political uncertainties that are impacting the global economy. A continued escalation of international conflicts could severely impact our operations and demand for our products. In certain of the countries where we sell our products, effective protections for patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets may be unavailable or limited in nature and scope. In addition, as we target increased sales in Asia, differing levels of protection of our intellectual property in Asian countries could have a significant impact on our business. As a result, the laws, the enforcement of laws, or our efforts to obtain and enforce intellectual property protections in any of these jurisdictions may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. A majority of our products are manufactured in Asia, primarily in China, Japan, Malaysia and Taiwan. Any conflict or uncertainty in these countries, including due to public health or safety concerns or natural disasters (such as earthquakes), could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the government of any country in which our products are manufactured or sold sets technical standards for products made in or imported into their country that are not widely shared, it may lead certain of our customers to suspend imports of their products into that country, require manufacturers in that country to manufacture products with different technical standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing partnerships which, in each case, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our production capacity, on obtaining supplies, a number of which are obtained from a single source, and on forecasting future demand; and a reduction or disruption in our production capacity or our supplies or an incorrect forecast could negatively impact our business. Demand for our products is subject to significant fluctuation. If we overestimate demand, we may experience underutilized capacity and excess inventory levels. If we underestimate demand, we may miss sales opportunities and incur additional costs for labor overtime, equipment overuse and logistical complexities. Additionally, our production capacity could be affected by 15 Table of Contents manufacturing problems. Difficulties in the production process could reduce yields or interrupt production, and, as a result of such problems, we may not be able to deliver products on time or in a cost-effective, competitive manner. As the complexity of both our products and our fabrication processes has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become more demanding. We have in the past experienced manufacturing difficulties that have given rise to delays in delivery and quality control problems. Our failure to adequately manage our capacity could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may suffer disruptions in our manufacturing operations, either due to production difficulties such as those described above or as a result of external factors beyond our control. We use highly combustible materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of explosions and fires, which can cause significant disruptions to our operations. These can occur even in the absence of any fault on our part. If operations at a manufacturing facility are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis or at all. In addition, certain of our products are only capable of being produced at a single manufacturing facility and to the extent that any of these facilities fail to produce these products, this risk will be increased. Even if a transfer is possible, transitioning production of a particular type of semiconductor from one of our facilities to another can take between six to twelve months to accomplish, and in the interim period we would likely suffer significant or total supply disruption and incur substantial costs. Such an event could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the third quarter of 2009 and in connection with our decision to eliminate our 150mm manufacturing capability, we began the process of transitioning certain technologies to our other manufacturing facilities and contract manufacturers. Our ability to meet customer demands also depends on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from our suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Supply disruptions may also occur due to shortages in critical materials, such as silicon wafers or specialized chemicals, or energy or other general supplier disruptions. We have experienced shortages in the past that have adversely affected our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, we may encounter these problems in the future. In addition, a number of our supplies are obtained from a single source. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may engage in acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions intended to complement or expand our business. We may not be able to complete these transactions and, if executed, these transactions pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our operations. Our future success may be dependent on opportunities to enter into joint ventures and to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. If we are unable to identify suitable targets, our growth prospects may suffer, and we may not be able to realize sufficient scale advantages to compete effectively in all markets. In addition, in pursuing acquisitions, we may face competition from other companies in the semiconductor industry. Our ability to acquire targets may also be limited by applicable antitrust laws and other regulations in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions in which we do business. To the extent that we are successful in making acquisitions, we may have to expend substantial amounts of cash, incur debt, assume loss-making divisions and incur other types of expenses. We may not be able to complete such transactions, for reasons including, but not limited to, a failure to secure financing or as a result of restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; • possible negative impacts on our operating results during the integration process; and • our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, which could increase our costs and restrict our operations in the future. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. We could incur significant costs as a result of any failure by us to comply with, or any liability we may incur under, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the limitation or suspension of production, monetary fines or civil or criminal sanctions, clean-up costs or other future liabilities in excess of our reserves. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the recycling of our products, the materials that may be included in our products, and our obligation to dispose of our products at the end of their useful life. For example, the European Directive 2002/95/Ec on restriction of hazardous substances (“RoHS”), bans the placing on the 16 Table of Contents EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than specified levels of lead, and other hazardous compounds. As more countries enact requirements like the RoHS Directive, and as exemptions are phased out, we could incur substantial additional costs to convert the remainder of our portfolio, conduct required research and development, alter manufacturing processes, or adjust supply chain management. Such changes could also result in significant inventory obsolescence. In addition, compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses or modify our manufacturing processes. In the event of the discovery of new or previously unknown contamination, additional requirements with respect to existing contamination, or the imposition of other cleanup obligations for which we are responsible, we may be required to take remedial or other measures which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, we have incurred and may in the future incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. We have been and may in the future be defendants in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to liabilities as a result of personal injury claims based on alleged links between the semiconductor manufacturing process and certain illnesses. In the last few years, there has been increased media scrutiny and associated reports focusing on an alleged link between working in semiconductor manufacturing clean room environments and certain illnesses, primarily different types of cancers. Because we utilize these clean rooms, we may become subject to liability as a result of claims alleging personal injury. In addition, these reports may also affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. A significant judgment against us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may be subject to product liability and warranty claims, which could be expensive and could divert management’s attention. We make highly complex electronic components and, accordingly, there is a risk that defects may occur in any of our products. Such defects may damage our reputation and can give rise to significant costs, including expenses relating to recalling products, replacing defective items, writing down defective inventory, delays in, cancellations of, rescheduling or return of orders or shipments and loss of potential sales. In addition, the occurrence of such defects may give rise to product liability and warranty claims, including liability for damages caused by such defects. If we release defective products into the market, our reputation could suffer and we could lose sales opportunities and become liable to pay damages. Moreover, since the cost of replacing defective semiconductor devices is often much higher than the value of the devices themselves, we may at times face damage claims from customers in excess of the amounts they pay us for our products, including consequential damages. We also face exposure to potential liability resulting from the fact that our customers typically integrate the semiconductors we sell into numerous consumer products, which are then in turn sold into the marketplace. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our products caused a loss. Product liability claims could result in significant expenses relating to defense costs or damages awards. In particular, the sale of systems and components for the transportation and medical industries involves a high degree of risk that such claims may be made. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or in order to maintain good customer relationships. Each of these actions would likely harm our reputation and lead to substantial expense. Any product recall or product liability claim brought against us could have a material negative impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly capital intensive and, if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital, we may not remain competitive. To remain competitive, we must constantly improve our facilities and process technologies and carry out extensive research and development, each of which requires investment of significant amounts of capital. This risk is magnified by our high level of debt, since we are required to use a significant portion of our cash flow to service that debt, and also because our level of debt limits our ability to raise additional capital. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash or raise sufficient capital to meet both our debt service and capital investment requirements, or if we are unable to raise required capital on favorable terms when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially negatively impacted. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract key management and other personnel, could impact our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business and on technical experts to develop new products and technologies. Future turnover in these positions or the loss of other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research and development activities successfully and develop marketable products. In the technology sector, the use of equity as incentive compensation is an important part of the compensation package for 17 Table of Contents professionals. Although we maintain an incentive compensation plan, our equity is not publicly traded, which may have a negative impact on our ability to recruit and retain professionals. We have recorded significant charges for reorganization of business activities, interest expense and amortization expense in the past and may do so again in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges relating to our efforts to consolidate manufacturing operations and streamline our global organizational structure in the amount of $345 million and $320 million, respectively. Due to a combination of the constant and rapid change experienced in the semiconductor industry, we may incur employee termination, exit costs and asset impairment charges in the future and such charges may have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have also recorded higher interest expense and amortization expense in connection with the Merger, and as a result, we have incurred net and operating losses since 2006. In addition, we expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our products, including research and development and sales and administrative expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen difficulties, complications, product delays and other unknown factors that require additional expenditures. As a result of these increased expenditures, we may have to generate and sustain substantially increased revenue to achieve profitability. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. From time to time we may also decide to divest certain product lines and businesses or restructure our operations, including through the contribution of assets to joint ventures. However, our ability to successfully extricate ourselves from product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, if we are seeking a buyer for a particular product line, none may be available. In addition, we may face internal obstacles to our efforts. In some cases, particularly with respect to our European operations, there may be laws or other legal impediments affecting our ability to carry out such sales or restructuring. As a result, we may be unable to exit a product line or business, or to restructure our operations, in a manner we deem to be advantageous. We rely on manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect the availability of supplies and services. We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other sub-contractors in geologically unstable locations around the world. This reliance involves risks associated with the impact of earthquakes on us and the semiconductor industry, including temporary loss of capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities, or those of our subcontractors or third-party wafer fabrication foundries, as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of utilities or otherwise, would have a material negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Indebtedness We are highly leveraged. The substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the notes. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was approximately $7,911 million. We also had an additional $15 million available for borrowing under the senior secured revolving credit facility. In addition, under the Senior PIK-Election Notes due 2014 (“PIK-Election Notes”), we have elected to use the payment-in-kind (“PIK”) feature of the outstanding PIK-Election Notes in lieu of making cash interest payments (“PIK Interest”) through the interest period ending June 15, 2010, and have the option to continue to elect to pay interest in the form of PIK Interest through December 15, 2011. In the event we make a PIK Interest election in each period in which we are entitled to make such an election, our debt will increase by the amount of such interest. We are a guarantor of the indebtedness. We elected to use the PIK Interest feature for the interest periods ending on June 15, 2009 and December 15, 2009. As a result, we issued a total of approximately $53 million of incremental PIK-Election Notes in 2009. In addition, we drew down $460 million and $184 million under a senior secured revolving credit facility, net of non-funded commitments by Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. (“LCPI”), in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, $15 million was available for borrowing under the senior secured revolving credit facility, net of $31 million of outstanding letters of credit and non-funded commitments by LCPI. This high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on the indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; 18 Table of Contents • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of the borrowings, including borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities and the senior floating rate notes, are at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult to satisfy obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing the indebtedness; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. Our cash interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $444 million, excluding $75 million of PIK Interest on our PIK-Election Notes. At December 31, 2009, there was approximately $4,210 million aggregate principal amount of variable indebtedness under the senior floating rate notes and senior secured credit facility. A 1% increase in such rates would increase the annual interest expense by approximately $42 million, excluding the effect of our interest rate swaps and caps outstanding as of December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, our indebtedness included (i) a revolving credit facility with a committed capacity of $690 million, and $644 million outstanding thereunder, which will be available through December 1, 2012, at which time all outstanding principal amounts under the revolving credit facility will be due and payable; (ii) $3,372 million in term loans maturing on December 1, 2013; (iii) $917 million in incremental term loans maturing on December 15, 2014; (iv) $2,136 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under our senior notes due 2014; (v) $764 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under our senior subordinated notes due 2016 and (vi) $61 million of other indebtedness (see Note 4 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statement for further information). Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operations sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets. We may not be able to consummate such dispositions, which could result in our inability to meet debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we will be in default under one or more of our debt agreements and, as a result, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Despite the high indebtedness level, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing the indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Our subsidiaries have $15 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. In addition, under the PIK-Election Notes, our subsidiaries have elected and have the option to continue to pay interest in the form of PIK Interest through December 15, 2011, which would increase the amount of debt by the amount of any such interest. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. The debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit the ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our, the restricted parent guarantors’ and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of the revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the 19 Table of Contents senior secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit facilities. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities as well as our unsecured indebtedness. Rises in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates has an immediate effect on LIBOR (the interest rate index on which our variable rate debt is based), which fluctuates on a regular basis. Although interest rates actually decreased in fiscal 2009, any increased interest expense associated with increases in interest rates affects our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. As a protection against rising interest rates, we have entered and may in the future enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps contracts. However, the other parties to the agreements may fail to perform or the terms may be unfavorable to us depending on rate movements. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 