Risk Factors. The following factors and the matters discussed below and elsewhere in this report should be considered when evaluating our business operations and strategies. Additionally, there may be risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently deem immaterial, which may become material factors affecting our operations and business success. Many of the factors are not within our control. We provide no assurance that one or more of these factors will not: · adversely affect · the market price of our common stock, · our future operations, and · our business, · financial condition, or · results of operations · require significant reduction or discontinuance of our operations, · require us to seek a merger partner or · require us to sell additional stock on terms that are highly dilutive to our shareholders, and · may ultimately result in a decline in or complete loss of the value of our securities. Since our inception in July 2006, we have incurred substantial losses from operations and those losses may continue and be substantial. During 2007 and 2006, we incurred a net loss of $5,156,529 and $269,444, respectively. These net losses have resulted in an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2007 of $5,425,573. Because we may continue to 15 have a high level of operating expenses and interest expense, it is anticipated that additional net losses may be incurred in the foreseeable future until such time, if ever, that we generate sufficient gross profit on revenues to support our operations or substantial reduction of operating expenses and indebtedness. There is no assurance that we will obtain profitable operations, in which case, the market value of our common stock may be adversely affected. We face a high level of competition in our markets. We operate in highly competitive markets. Our pharmacies compete against national, regional and local drugstore chains, discount drugstores, supermarkets, combination food and drugstores, discount general merchandise stores, mass merchandisers, independent drugstores and local merchants. Major chain competitors include CVS, Rite Aid, Wal-Mart, Target and Walgreens. In addition, other chain stores may enter market areas in which we operate and become significant competitors in the future. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. If any of our current competitors, or new competitors, were to devote significant resources to enhancing or establishing an increased presence within our market areas, they could make it difficult for us to maintain or grow our market share or maintain our margins, and our advertising and promotional costs could increase. In addition to competition from the drugstore chains, we also compete with hospitals, health maintenance organizations and Canadian imports. Another adverse trend for retail store (“brick and mortar” stores) pharmacies has been the rapid growth in mail-order and internet-based prescription processors. These prescription distribution methods have grown in market share relative to retail store pharmacies in response to the rapid rise in drug costs experienced in recent years. Mail-order prescription distribution methods are perceived by employers and insurers as being less costly than traditional distribution methods and are being mandated by an increasing number of third-party pharmacy benefit managers, many of which also own and manage mail-order distribution operations as well as a growing number of employers and unions. In addition to these forms of mail-order distribution, there have also been an increasing number of internet-based prescription distributors that specialize in offering certain high demand lifestyle drugs at deeply discounted prices. A number of these internet-based distributors operate illicitly and outside the reach of regulations that govern legitimate retail store pharmacies. Competition from Canadian imports has also been increasing significantly and also creates volume and pricing pressure. Imports from foreign countries may increase further if recently introduced legislation seeking to legalize the importation of drugs from Canada and other countries is eventually enacted. These alternate distribution channels have acted to restrain the rate of sales growth for traditional retail store pharmacies as well as the chain drug retailers in the last few years. A majority of our pharmacies are located in the Midwest and Southwest areas of the United States. As a result, we are sensitive to, and our success will be substantially affected by, economic conditions and other factors affecting this region of the United States, including the regulatory environment, the cost of energy, real estate, insurance, taxes and rent, weather, demographics, the availability of labor, and geopolitical factors such as terrorism. A prediction of the future economic conditions in this region with certainty is not possible. During an economic downturn, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected because of, among other things, a reduction in the size of the workforce in the region or the metropolitan area serviced by a pharmacy, reduced income levels, a resulting increase in shrinkage or a decline in population growth. Our pharmacies located in the more urbanized or metropolitan markets (level one and two markets) may experience a higher rate of population shrink compared to the less densely populated markets (level three and lower markets). Furthermore, our operating results may be negatively affected by increased labor costs associated with the ongoing shortage of pharmacists within the areas served by it pharmacies and to a much lesser extent the increase in minimum wage rates. Any other unforeseen events or circumstances that affect the area could also materially adversely affect our revenues, profitability, financial condition and working capital liquidity. The markets for sleep diagnostic disorders and sale of the related products are highly competitive and we compete against substantially larger healthcare provides, including hospitals and clinics. Competition among companies that provide healthcare services and supplies is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or future competitors, we may be prevented from retaining our existing 16 customers or from attracting new customers, which could materially impair our business. There are a number of companies that currently offer or are in the process of offering services and supplies that compete with our sleep diagnostic services and related product and supplies sales. These competitors may succeed in providing services and products that are more effective, less expensive or both than those currently offered by us or that would render some of our services or supplies obsolete or non-competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have and may be in a better position than us to withstand the adverse effects on gross margins and profitability caused by price decreases prevalent in this competitive environment. Our failure to successfully implement our growth plan may adversely affect our financial performance. Our Apothecary operating segment has grown primarily through store acquisitions, growing from three stores at the end of 2006 to 11 stores at the end of 2007. We intend to continue to grow incrementally through these acquisitions. Currently, we plan to acquire six to eight established retail pharmacy stores per year during 2008 through 2010. As this growth plan is pursued, we may encounter difficulties expanding and improving our operating and financial systems to maintain pace with the increased complexity of the expanded operations and management responsibilities. Also, we may be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified pharmacists in the acquired locations and market areas. In addition, the cost of rent and utilities in most market areas has been increasing significantly, which increases the operating costs of our stores. The success of our growth strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, including, among other things: · economic conditions; · competition; · consumer preferences and purchasing power; · financing and working capital requirements; · the ability to negotiate store leases on favorable terms; and · the availability of new store locations at a reasonable cost. Even if we succeed in acquiring established stores as planned, those acquired stores may not achieve the projected revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of currently owned stores in the time periods we estimate or at all. Moreover, our newly acquired stores may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our existing stores and other operations. The failure of our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Government and private insurance plans may further reduce or discontinue healthcare reimbursements which could result in reductions in our revenue and operating margins. A substantial portion of the costs of medical care in the United States is funded by managed care organizations, insurance companies, government funded programs, employers and other third-party payers, which are collectively referred to as “third-party plans”, and as these plans continue to seek cost containment. If this funding were to be further reduced in terms of coverage or payment rates or become unavailable to our pharmacy customers or sleep disorder patients, our business will be adversely affected. Furthermore, managed care organizations and insurance companies are evaluating approaches to reduce costs by decreasing the frequency of treatment or the utilization of the device or product. These cost containment measures have caused the decision-making function with respect to purchasing to shift in many cases from the physician to the third-party plans or payors, resulting in an increased emphasis on reduced price, as opposed to clinical benefits or a particular product’s features. Efforts by U.S. governmental and private payors to contain costs will likely continue. Because we generally receive payment for our pharmacy sales and sleep diagnostic services and related products directly from these third-party plans, our business operations are dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate and timely reimbursement for our pharmacy sales and sleep diagnostic services and related products. 17 The third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers. These payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a diagnostic test was not performed properly or a device is not used in accordance with approved indications, or is unnecessary or deemed to be inappropriate treatment for the patient. Third-party payors are also increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. There is no assurance that our sleep diagnostic services and the related products will be considered cost-effective by third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available, or that payors’ reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to offer and sell its services and products on a profitable basis, if at all. Our pharmacy sales have low-profit margins and those margins are subject to unfavorable trends that are not within our control. Our pharmacy sales, which are lower-margin than front-end store sales, represent a substantial percentage of our total revenue. Pharmacy sales, including resales of certain retail inventory, accounted for approximately 93% of total pharmacy store sales in 2007 and approximately 94% of total sales in 2006. Pharmacy sales not only have lower margins than non-pharmacy sales but are also subject to increasing margin pressure from third-party plans seeking cost containment. In addition, an increasing number of employers are now requiring participants in their plans to obtain some of their prescription drugs, especially those for non-acute conditions, through mail-order providers. These factors and other factors related to pharmacy sales had a negative impact on our pharmacy sales in 2007 and could continue to have a negative impact in the future. The continued conversion of prescription drugs to over-the-counter medications will result in reduced pharmacy sales. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs to over-the-counter medications may materially reduce our pharmacy sales and customers may seek to purchase those medications at non-pharmacy stores, including discount retail stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. The withdrawal of certain drugs from the market or concerns about the safety or effectiveness of certain drugs or negative publicity surrounding certain categories of drugs may also have a negative effect on our pharmacy sales or may cause shifts in its pharmacy or front-end product mix. Changes in reimbursement levels for prescription drugs and sleep diagnostic services and related products continue to reduce our margins and could have a material, adverse effect on our overall operating results. During 2007 and 2006, we were wholly or partially reimbursed by third-party plans for approximately 87% and 79% of the prescription drugs that we sold, respectively and 99% of our revenue, during 2007, from sleep diagnostic services and product sales. The percentage of prescription sales and sleep diagnostic revenues reimbursed by third-party plans has been increasing, and we expect that percentage to continue to increase. These prescription sales and sleep diagnostic revenue reimbursed by third-party plans, including Medicare and Medicaid plans, in general have lower gross margins. Third-party plans may not increase reimbursement rates sufficiently to offset expected increases in the costs of our pharmaceuticals and sleep related products, as well as general costs of operations, thereby reducing our margins and adversely affecting our profitability. In addition, continued increases in co-payments by third-party plans may result in decreases in sales and revenue, operating and cash flow losses, and may deplete working capital reserves. In particular, Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective reimbursement rate adjustments, administrative rulings, executive orders and freezes and funding restrictions, all of which may significantly impact our operations. During 2007 and 2006, 43% and 35%, respectively, of our total prescription sales and 7% of our sleep diagnostic revenues, during 2007, were attributable to Medicaid or Medicare reimbursement. Over the last several years, a number of states experiencing budget deficits have moved to reduce Medicaid reimbursement rates. The Medicare Drug Act, enacted in 2003, created a new Medicare Part D benefit that expanded Medicare coverage of prescription drugs for senior citizens not participating in third-party plans and became effective in 2006. Sales to those customers represented 39% and 32% of our total pharmacy revenue during 2007 and 2006, 18 respectively. This revised Medicare coverage is expected to result in decreased pharmacy margins resulting from lower reimbursement rates than our current margins on prescriptions that are not subject to third-party plan reimbursement. Our failure to comply with all of the government regulations may result in substantial reimbursement obligations, damages, penalties, injunctive relief or exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. Our pharmacy and sleep diagnostic operations are subject to a variety of complex federal, state and local government laws and regulations, including federal and state civil fraud, anti-kickback and other laws. We endeavor to structure all of our relationships to comply with these laws. However, if any of our operations are found to violate these or other government regulations, we could suffer severe penalties, including suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid programs; loss of licenses; significant fines or monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, submission of false claims or other failures to meet reimbursement program requirements. Also, violations of federal, state, and common law privacy protections could give rise to significant damages, penalties, or injunctive relief. Federal and state laws require our pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to its customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the pharmacists deem significant. Our pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Additionally, we is subject to federal and state regulations relating to its pharmacy operations, including purchasing, storing and dispensing of controlled substances. We rely on primary suppliers of pharmaceutical and sleep related products to sell their products to us on satisfactory terms and a disruption in our relationship with these suppliers could have a material, adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on merchandise vendors to provide pharmaceutical and sleep disorder related products for our resale. The largest of the pharmaceutical supplies is Cardinal Healthcare, Inc. which supplied approximately 71% and 62% of our pharmaceutical products during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our largest sleep product supplier is MVAP Medical Supplies, Inc. which supplied approximately 80% of our sleep supplies in 2007. In our opinion, if any of these agreements were terminated or if any contracting party were to experience events precluding fulfillment of its supply obligations to us, we would be able to find a suitable alternative supplier, but possibly not without significant disruption to its business. This could take a significant amount of time and result in a loss of customers and revenue, operating and cash flow losses and may deplete working capital reserves. We may be unable to attract, hire and retain qualified pharmacists, which could harm our business. As our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified pharmacists. The pharmacy industry is experiencing an ongoing shortage of licensed pharmacists. As a result, competition for qualified pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals has been especially strong, resulting in higher salaries, which we continue to match by raising the salaries of our pharmacists. Although we have generally been able to meet our pharmacist staffing requirements, our inability to do so in the future at costs that are favorable to us, or at all, could negatively impact our revenue, and our customers could experience lower levels of customer service. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Products that we sell, especially pharmaceuticals, could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage requiring us to recall products previously dispensed or sold. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability 19 claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell and we may be obligated to recall products that we previously sold. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and may deplete working capital reserves. We depend on our management team, and the loss of their services could have a material, adverse effect on our business. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive officers and members of our Executive Officer Committee. Departures by our executive officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. Continued volatility in insurance related expenses and the markets for insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. The costs of employee health, workers’ compensation, property and casualty, general liability, and other types of insurance have continued to rise. These conditions have been exacerbated by rising healthcare costs, legislative changes, and economic conditions. To mediate the risks of these costs in our Apothecary operating segment, we entered into a co-employment relationship with a national professional employer organization (“PEO”). Through this relationship the PEO negotiates employee health and workers’ compensation premiums on behalf of a large number of small and medium sized employers and can offer these coverages at a significantly lower cost than we could. Additionally, the larger population in the pool of employees protects us from some of the volatility characteristic of small employee groups. If our insurance-related costs through the PEO or directly continue to increase significantly, or if we are unable to obtain adequate levels of insurance, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Certain risks are inherent in providing healthcare services, especially pharmacy services, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims against us. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging, dispensing and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products and to a less extent providers of sleep diagnostic services. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, the coverage limits under these insurance programs may not be adequate to protect us against all future claims, and we may not be able to maintain this insurance coverage on acceptable terms in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business. The failure to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 potentially would result in liability and the cost of compliance may be material. We collect and use information about individuals and their medical conditions. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the privacy regulations promulgated by The Department of Health and Human Services (“HIPAA”) impose extensive restrictions on the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. The applicable HIPAA regulations standardize electronic transactions between health plans, providers and clearinghouses. Healthcare plans, providers and claims administrators are required to conform their electronic and data processing systems to HIPAA electronic transaction requirements. While it is believed that we currently comply with HIPAA, there is some uncertainty of the extent to which the enforcement or interpretation of the HIPAA regulations will affect our business. Continuing compliance and the associated costs with these regulations may have a significant impact on our business operations. Criminal and civil sanctions are imposed for failing to comply with HIPAA. Healthcare reform proposals are gaining substantial support in the United States Congress and state legislatures and could impact the profitability of our business. The United States healthcare industry is subject to several reform proposals, including more stringent 20 regulations. It is uncertain whether and when these proposals will become legal requirements affecting our business operations and their effect on our operations. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on the costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement patients and customers receive from both government and third-party plans or payors. Federal, state and local government representatives will, in all likelihood, continue to review and assess alternative regulations and payment methodologies. Healthcare reform and enforcement initiatives of federal and state governments may also affect our sales and revenue. These initiatives include: · proposals designed to significantly reduce spending on Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs; · changes in programs providing for reimbursement for the cost of prescription drugs and other healthcare products by third-party plans or payors; · the Medicare Drug Act; · increased scrutiny of, and litigation relating to, prescription drug manufacturers’ pricing and marketing practices; and · regulatory changes relating to the approval process for prescription drugs and healthcare products in general. These initiatives could lead to the enactment of, or changes to, federal regulations and state regulations that could adversely impact our prescription drug sales and, accordingly, its results of operations. There is uncertainty regarding the nature of additional healthcare reform initiatives, if any, that may be implemented, or whether there will be other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system. Future healthcare or budget legislation or other changes, including those referenced above, may materially adversely affect our business resulting in operating and cash flow losses, depletion of working capital reserves and adversely affect our financial condition. Failure to comply with environmental health and safety laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on business operations. Our business operations are subject to numerous environmental health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with those laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. The goodwill acquired pursuant to our acquisition of pharmacies and sleep centers may become impaired and require a write-down and the recognition of a substantial impairment expense. At December 31, 2007, we had $20,247,905 in goodwill that was recorded in connection with the acquisition of our pharmacies and sleep centers during 2006 and 2007. In the event that this goodwill is determined to be impaired for any reason, we will be required to write-down or reduce the value of the goodwill and recognize an impairment expense. The impairment expense may be substantial in amount and, in which case, adversely affect the results of our operations for the applicable period and may negatively affect the market value of our common stock. We require a significant amount of cash flow from operations and third-party financing to pay our indebtedness, to execute our business plan and to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us under existing loan facilities or otherwise in an amount we will need to pay our indebtedness, to execute its business plan or to fund its other liquidity needs. We anticipate the need for approximately $12,600,000 in 2008 to fund acquisition of pharmacy customer files and other assets of the pharmacy sites acquired in 2008, and an additional approximately $7,200,000 for funding initial inventory and accounts receivables at sites acquired in 2008. In addition, we may need to refinance some or all of its current indebtedness at or before maturity. 21 We incurred indebtedness of $11,960,000 to fund the acquisition of our sleep centers in January 2007. This indebtedness requires quarterly accrued interest payments at floating variable interest rates (7.32% interest rate at June 30, 2007) and $291,635 quarterly principal payments beginning May 1, 2008. At December 31, 2007, we had total liabilities of $38,639,838. Because of our lack of significant historical operations, there is no assurance that our operating results will provide sufficient funding to pay our liabilities on a timely basis . There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our current indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to generate or raise sufficient funds may require us to modify, delay or abandon some of its future business growth strategies or expenditure plans. The public market prices and values of our common stock or redeemable warrants may fluctuate widely. In any developed market for our common stock or redeemable warrants the market prices may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to, and may be adversely affected by · variations in quarterly operating results, · changes in earnings estimates by analysts, · developments in the healthcare industry generally and more particularly the retail pharmacy and sleep disorder diagnostic segments, and · general stock market conditions. Our common stock is included in the over-the-counter market and has a low trading volume that increase the volatility of the market price and value of the common stock as well as our redeemable warrants. Our common stock is included in the over-the-counter market. The over-the-counter market is volatile and characterized as follows: · the over-the-counter securities are subject to substantial and sudden price increases and decreases, · at times the price (bid and ask) information for the securities may not be available, · if there is only one or two market makers, there is a risk that the dealers or group of dealers may control the market in our common stock and set prices that are not based on competitive forces, and · the available offered price may be substantially below the quoted bid price. Our common stock subject to “penny stock” rules that impose additional duties and responsibilities on broker-dealers and salespersons making purchase recommendations and require purchasers to met certain qualifications, all of which materially limit or restrict the ability to resale the common stock in terms of resale prices and the ability to sell on a timely basis. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules. A “penny stock” is generally a stock that · is only listed in “pink sheets” or on the OTC Bulletin Board, · the high bid price for the common stock is less than $5.00, and less than two market makers are currently displaying bid and ask quotations at specified prices, or · is issued by a company with net tangible assets of less than $5 million (or after having been in existence for more than three years, less than $2 million) or · has average revenues during the previous three years of less than $6 million. 22 The penny stock trading rules impose additional duties and responsibilities upon broker-dealers and salespersons recommending the purchase or sale of a penny stock. Required compliance with these rules materially limit or restrict the ability to resell our common stock and the liquidity typically associated with other publicly traded stocks may not exist. We may issue additional common stock and preferred stock at prices and on terms determined by our board of directors, without shareholder consent or approval, that upon issuance may result in substantial dilution of our shareholders interests as well as the market price and value of our common stock. We have 376,974,753 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We have the right to offer these shares at offering prices to be determined in sole discretion of our board of directors. The sale of these shares may result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Also the preferred stock may have rights superior to those of our common stock. These stock issuances may adversely affect the market price or value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Since June 30, 2007, we have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. Item 