ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. For the financial information discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than per share and per line amounts, dollar amounts are presented in thousands, except where noted. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenue. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies and alternative voice communication providers. Our competitors include the traditional telephone service providers, including AT&T, Qwest Communications and Verizon Communications, which provide telephone service based on the public switched telephone network. Some of these traditional providers also have added VoIP services to their existing telephone and broadband offerings. We also face competition from cable companies, such as Cablevision, Charter Communications, Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, and Time Warner Cable, which have added VoIP services to their existing cable television and broadband offerings. Further, as wireless providers, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless, offer more minutes at lower prices, better coverage and companion landline alternative services, including through products such as dual mode phones and femtocells, their services have become more attractive to households as a replacement for wire line service. Most traditional wire line and wireless telephone service providers and cable companies are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of a large existing customer base. Because most of our target customers are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers. Our competitors’ financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. Our competitors also could use their greater financial resources to offer VoIP services with more attractive features and more robust customer service. In addition, because of the other services our competitors provide, they often choose to offer VoIP services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as video, high speed Internet access and wireless telephone service, which we do not offer. This bundle may enable our competitors to offer VoIP service at prices with which we may not be able to compete or to offer functionality that integrates VoIP service with their other offerings, both of which may be more desirable to consumers. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, reduce our market share and revenues or cause us to lower our prices or offer additional features that may result in additional costs without commensurate price increases. We also compete against established alternative voice communication providers, such as Skype, Google Voice, magicJack and independent VoIP service providers. Some of these service providers have chosen to sacrifice telephony revenue in order to gain market share and have offered their services at low prices or for free. As we continue the introduction of applications that integrate different forms of voice and messaging services over multiple devices, we are likely to face competition from emerging competitors focused on similar integration, as well as from established alternative voice communication providers. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to reduce our prices, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increases. We also are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice and messaging services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for voice and messaging services, then our products and services could become obsolete. The market for our products is constantly and rapidly evolving, as we and our competitors introduce new and enhanced products and services, and react to changes in VoIP and messaging technology and customer demands. We may not be able to develop or acquire new products and plans or product and plan enhancements that compete effectively with present or emerging VoIP and messaging technologies or differentiate our products and plans based on functionality and performance. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances that will permit enhancement opportunities or innovative distribution methods for our products and plans. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. To succeed, we believe that we need to enhance our current products and plans and develop new products and plans on a timely basis to keep pace with market needs and satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of customers. VoIP and messaging technology is complex, and new products and plans and product and plan enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products and plans, including as a result of any limitations with our internal systems, could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and customers. Any technical flaws in products we release could diminish the innovative impact of the products and have a negative effect on customer adoption and our reputation. Net customer losses as a result of customer churn or inability to attract new customers could negatively affect our business by reducing our revenue or requiring us to spend more money to grow our customer base. Our rate of customer terminations, or average monthly customer churn, was 3.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009. During 2009, we added 705,790 customers while 810,728 of our customers terminated resulting in a net customer decrease of 104,938 for 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, our average monthly customer churn was 2.8%. Our churn rate could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with the quality and 10 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents reliability of our network, the value proposition of our products and the ability of our customer service to meet the needs and expectations of our customers. Other factors, including increased competition from other providers, including increasing wireless substitution, disruptive technologies, general economic conditions and our ability to activate and register new customers on the network, also influence our churn rate. Because of churn, we have to acquire new customers on an ongoing basis just to maintain our existing level of customers and revenues. As a result, marketing expense is an ongoing requirement of our business. If our churn rate increases, we will have to acquire even more new customers in order to maintain our existing revenues. We incur significant costs to acquire new customers, and those costs are an important factor in maintaining profitability. Therefore, if we are unsuccessful in retaining customers, are required to spend significant amounts to acquire new customers beyond those budgeted or our marketing and advertising efforts are not effective in targeting specific customer segments, our revenue could decrease and our net losses could increase. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy has experienced a period of slowdown and very high volatility and the future economic environment may continue to be unfavorable. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from residential, small office and home office customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. While we believe that the weakening economy had a modest effect on our net subscriber additions and ability of our customers to pay us during 2009, if these economic conditions deteriorate, the growth of our business and results of operations may be more severely impacted. Economic conditions may accelerate the trend of households relying solely on a mobile phone for home telecommunications, while eliminating landline connections, which is known as wireless substitution. In addition, reduced consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer certain services at promotional prices, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. The debt agreements governing our November 2008 financing contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. On November 3, 2008, we consummated a financing consisting of (i) a $130,300 senior secured first lien credit facility (the “First Lien Senior Facility”), (ii) a $72,000 senior secured second lien credit facility (the “Second Lien Senior Facility”) and (iii) the sale of $18,000 of our 20% senior secured third lien notes due 2015 (the “Convertible Notes” and collectively, the “Financing”). The First Lien Senior Facility, the Second Lien Senior Facility and the Note Purchase Agreement governing the Convertible Notes contain various covenants and other restrictions that limit our ability and/or the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions, including obtaining additional financing, if necessary. These covenants and other restrictions may under certain circumstances limit, but not necessarily preclude, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: > incur, prepay, refinance or modify indebtedness; > create liens; > pay dividends on or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; > make investments; > enter into acquisitions, sales and mergers; > enter into sale and leaseback transactions; > amend our organizational documents, or amend, modify or waive litigation settlements, key employment agreements or other material contracts; > incur marketing expenses in excess of specified thresholds; > change the nature of our business or enter into additional lines of business; and > enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates. Under the Financing agreements, we are required to maintain a specified minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, maximum leverage ratio and senior secured debt leverage ratio. In addition, these agreements require us to maintain minimum levels of consolidated adjusted EBIDTA, liquidity and pre-marketing operating income and limit our capital expenditures. Upon the repayment of our obligations under the First Lien Senior Facility and the Second Lien Senior Facility, the covenants will fall-away, but the Note Purchase Agreement for the Convertible Notes will continue to limit our ability to incur indebtedness and make restricted payments. Our ability to comply with such financial and other covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, so we may not be able to comply with these covenants. A breach of any such covenant could result in a default under these agreements. In that case, the lenders and the note holders could elect to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the Financing agreements, including principal, accrued interest, a “make-whole” premium and, in the case of the Convertible Notes, liquidated damages, and may take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness. Flaws in our technology and systems could cause delays or interruptions of service or permit third parties to commit fraud using our services, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Although we have designed our service network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our service may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems, such as malfunctions in our software or other facilities and overloading of our network. Our customers and potential customers subscribing to our services have experienced interruptions in the past and may experience interruptions in the future as a result of these types of problems. Interruptions have caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers and offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Network interruptions may also impair our ability to sign-up new customers. During 2009, we had multiple outages that affected groups of customers at various times, some of which affected large groups of customers for several hours. In addition, because our systems and our customers’ ability to use our services are Internet-dependent, our services may be subject to “hacker attacks” from the Internet, which could have a significant impact on our systems and services. If service interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our brand reputation and growth may suffer. In addition, third parties have fraudulently accessed customer accounts or used our services to commit fraud. If we are unable to detect and prevent such fraud, our 11 Table of Contents brand reputation and growth may suffer and we may incur additional costs or be required to credit significant amounts to customers. We are and in the future may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of our company. We are named as a defendant in a suit that relates to patent infringement and from time to time we receive letters from third parties initiating an opportunity for us to obtain patent licenses to patents that may be relevant to our business. See “Item 3. – Legal Proceedings – IP Matters.” In addition, we have been subject to other infringement claims in the past, including suits that we settled in 2007 and 2008 for a total of $243,825 with Verizon, Sprint, AT&T, Nortel Networks and others, and, given the rapid technological change in our industry and our continual development of new products and services, we may be subject to infringement claims in the future. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and issued patents that could include claims covering our products and services. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial royalties, licensing fees or damages. The defense of any lawsuit could divert management’s efforts and attention from ordinary business operations and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims. These outcomes may: > result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers; > lead to an event of default under the terms of our Financing documents, which could permit the lenders and note holders to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the Financing agreements, including principal, accrued interest, a “make-whole” premium and, in the case of the Convertible Notes, liquidated damages and take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness; > cause us to accelerate expenditures to preserve exiting revenues; > cause existing or new vendors to require prepayments or letters of credit; > cause our credit card processors to demand additional reserves or letters of credit or make holdbacks; > result in substantial employee layoffs; > materially and adversely affect our brand in the market place and cause a substantial loss of goodwill; > cause our stock price to decline significantly or otherwise cause us to fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, which could distract management and result in the delisting of our common stock from the exchange; > materially and adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay debts and other obligations as they become due; and > lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation. We may incur significant costs and harm to our reputation from lawsuits and regulatory inquiries related to our business practices, which may also divert the attention of our management from other aspects of our business. We were named in several purported class actions in California, New Jersey, and Washington alleging a wide variety of deficiencies with respect to our business practices, marketing disclosures, e-mail marketing and quality issues for both phone and fax service. We have also been subject to periodic regulatory inquiries regarding our business practices, including a recently settled investigation by a group of 32 states’ attorney generals into certain of our business practices. There was no finding of any violation or wrongdoing by us, and the 32 states participating in the settlement have released us and our affiliates from the matters investigated. In connection with the settlement, we agreed to pay an aggregate of $3.0 million to the participating states, including amounts to cover legal and investigation fees incurred. To improve the customer experience and promote continued customer satisfaction, we also agreed to implement certain enhancements to our business practices, many of which we implemented prior to completion of the settlement. We also agreed to provide refunds for certain affected consumers. Any such claims or regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. We may need to spend significant amounts on our legal defense, senior management may be required to divert their attention from other portions of our business, new product launches may be deferred or canceled as a result of any proceedings, and we may be required to make changes to our present and planned products or services. If, as a result of any proceedings, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation. Our ability to provide our service is dependent upon third-party facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and limit our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable telephony service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wire line telephone service or wireless service, our service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer’s Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer’s broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. We outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. For example, we outsource the maintenance of our regional data connection points, which are the facilities at which our network interconnects with the public switched telephone network. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our cus - - 12 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents tomers may experience service interruptions. Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities have in the past caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers, or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and our brand, reputation and growth will be negatively impacted. We also rely on third parties for some of our back office functions. For example, in December, 2009, we entered into an agreement to license billing and ordering systems. Any failure of the systems to properly function may negatively impact the customer experience. We rely on third parties to provide a portion of our customer service representatives, initiate local number portability for our customers and provide aspects of our E-911 service. If these third parties do not provide our customers with reliable, high-quality service, our reputation will be harmed and we may lose customers. We offer our customers support 24 hours a day, seven days a week through both our comprehensive online account management website and our toll free number. We rely on multiple third parties outside of the U.S. to provide a significant portion of the customer service representatives that respond to customer inquiries. These third-party providers generally represent us without identifying themselves as independent parties. Many of the customer service representatives that respond to our customers’ inquiries are based in the Philippines and India. The ability of third party providers to provide these representatives may be disrupted by natural disasters, civil unrest and other adverse events that may impact the Philippines and India. We also maintain an agreement with an E-911 provider to assist us in routing emergency calls directly to an emergency service dispatcher at the PSAP in the area of the customer’s registered location and terminating E-911 calls. We also contract with a provider for the national call center that operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week to receive certain emergency calls and with several companies that maintain PSAP databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services. Interruptions in service from these vendors could cause failures in our customers’ access to E-911 services and expose us to liability and damage our reputation. We also have agreements with companies that initiate our local number portability, which allow new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services. We will need to work with these companies to attain compliance with a new one-day porting requirement that becomes effective for us on February 2, 2011. If Vonage, or third parties it relies upon for porting, have difficulty complying with the new one-day porting requirement after the effective date, we could be subject to FCC enforcement action. If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services. We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected. Many of the key responsibilities of our business have been assigned to a relatively small number of individuals. Our future success depends to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management, especially Marc P. Lefar, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our continued growth depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced key employees. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. The New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) listing standards require us, among other things, to maintain an average closing price of at least $1.00 per share of common stock and a minimum average global market capitalization of at least $100,000 during any consecutive 30-trading-day period. On October 24, 2008, we were notified by the NYSE that we were not in compliance with the NYSE listing standard relating to minimum average share price. We regained compliance with the minimum average share price listing standard on September 28, 2009. On February 9, 2009, we were notified by the NYSE that we had fallen below the NYSE’s continued listing standard relating to minimum average global market capitalization. We subsequently submitted a plan that was accepted by the NYSE that demonstrates our ability to regain compliance within 18 months. We are subject to ongoing monitoring for compliance with this plan and submit quarterly operational updates to the NYSE. We could regain compliance either at the end of the 18-month plan period or based on two consecutive quarterly monitoring periods in compliance. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by: (i) reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; (iii) limiting our ability to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing us from accessing the public capital markets; (iv) impairing our ability to provide equity incentives to our employees and (v) causing an increase in the conversion rate under the Convertible Notes, resulting in the issuance of additional shares upon conversion. A delisting of our common stock is not an event of default under the documents governing our senior credit facilities and Convertible Notes. We have incurred losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur losses in the future. The first and second quarters of 2009 were the first quarters that we achieved profitability under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), although we incurred a net loss of $42,598 for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the period from our inception through December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $1,088,236. Our net losses initially were driven primarily by start-up costs and the cost of developing our technology and later by patent litigation settlements and marketing expenses. Most recently, our net losses have been driven principally by marketing expenses, investments in developing new products and customer care, increased interest expense as a result of the Financing that we completed in November 2008 and non-cash charges associated with the conversion feature of the Convertible Notes. Although we believe we will achieve profitability in the future, we ultimately may not be successful and we may not again achieve profitability. 13 Table of Contents If we require additional capital, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. We may need to pursue additional financing to respond to new competitive pressures or pay extraordinary expenses such as litigation settlements or judgments. Because of our past significant losses and our limited tangible assets, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets. In addition, the credit documentation for our recent financing contains affirmative and negative covenants that affect, and in many respects may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur, prepay, refinance or modify indebtedness and create liens. Certain aspects of our landline replacement service are not the same as traditional telephone service, which may limit the acceptance of our services by mainstream consumers and our potential for growth. For certain users, aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service. Our continued growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers, so these differences are important. For example: > Both our E-911 and emergency calling services are different, in significant respects, from the 911 service associated with traditional wire line and wireless telephone providers and, in certain cases, with other VoIP providers. > Our customers may experience lower call quality than they are used to from traditional wire line telephone companies, including static, echoes and delays in transmissions. > Our customers may experience higher dropped-call rates than they are used to from traditional wire line telephone companies. > Customers who obtain new phone numbers from us do not appear in the phone book and their phone numbers are not available through directory assistance services offered by traditional telephone companies. > Our customers cannot accept collect calls. > Our customers cannot call premium-rate telephone numbers such as 1-900 numbers and 976 numbers. > In the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption experienced by a customer, our service is interrupted. Unlike some of our competitors, we have not installed batteries at customer premises to provide emergency power for our customers’ equipment if they lose power, although we do have backup power systems for our network equipment and service platform. If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. Our emergency and E-911 calling services may expose us to significant liability. The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules for the provision of 911 service by interconnected VoIP providers, such as the VoIP service we provide, require that for all geographic areas covered by the traditional wire line E-911 network, interconnected VoIP providers must provide E-911 service as defined by the FCC’s rules. Under the FCC’s rules, E-911 service means that interconnected VoIP providers must transmit the caller’s telephone number and registered location information to the appropriate public safety answering point (“PSAP”) for the caller’s registered location. Vonage provides E-911 service, under the FCC’s rules, to approximately 98.9% of its subscriber lines. The remaining subscriber lines do not have E-911 service for a variety of reasons including refusal by PSAPs to accept VoIP 911 calls, the inability of PSAPs to receive the registered location data from us, and the failure by third party companies with whom we contract to provide aspects of our E-911 service to obtain the necessary access or complete implementation of the necessary interfaces to the traditional wire line E-911 infrastructure. In addition, certain of our services designed to be highly mobile including soft phone service, which is software that enables a customer to make telephone calls from a computer, route callers to a national emergency call center that in turns routes the call to the appropriate PSAP. We could be subject to enforcement action by the FCC for our subscriber lines that do not have E-911 service. This enforcement action could result in significant monetary penalties and restrictions on our ability to offer non-compliant services. Delays our customers may encounter when making emergency services calls and any inability of a PSAP to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number can have devastating consequences. Customers have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. In July 2008, the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008 became law and provided that interconnected VoIP providers have the same protections from liability for the operation of 911 service as traditional wire line and wireless providers. Limitations on liability for the provision of 911 service are normally governed by state law and these limitations typically are not absolute. Thus, for example, we could be subject to liability for a problem with our 911 service where our failures are greater than mere negligence. It is also unclear under the FCC’s rules whether the limitations on liability would apply to those subscriber lines where Vonage does not provide E-911 service. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to maintain data security and meet Payment Card Industry data security standards. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Any failure to maintain the security of our data and our employees’ and customers’ confidential information, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential information, could result in financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs. Any such failure also could put us at a competitive disadvantage and result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In early 2009, we completed the process of upgrading our network, systems and procedures to meet Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, which requires periodic audits, including an initial audit that was completed in the first quarter of 2009, by independent third parties to assess compliance. PCI 14 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents data security standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and VISA Inc., to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. Failure to comply with the security requirements as identified in subsequent audits or rectify a security issue may result in fines. While we believe it is unusual, restrictions on accepting payment cards, including a complete restriction, may be imposed on companies that are not compliant. Our credit card processors have the ability to take significant holdbacks or increase existing reserves in certain circumstances. The initiation of such holdbacks or increased reserves likely would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our credit card processors have established reserves to cover any exposure that they may have as we collect revenue in advance of providing services to our customers, which is a customary practice for companies that bill their customers in advance of providing services. As such, we provided our credit card processors with cash reserves of $22,423 and a cash collateralized letter of credit for $10,500 as of December 31, 2009. Under our credit card processing agreements with our Visa/MasterCard, American Express, Barclays and Discover credit card processors, the credit card processor has the right, in certain circumstances, including adverse events affecting our business, to impose a holdback of our advanced payments purchased using a Visa/MasterCard, American Express, Barclays or Discover credit card, as applicable, or demand additional reserves or other security. If circumstances were to occur that would allow any of these processors to initiate a holdback or considerably increase reserves, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. In addition, our Visa/MasterCard credit card processing agreement may be terminated by the credit card processor at its discretion if we are deemed to be financially insecure. As a significant portion of payments to us are made through Visa and MasterCard credit cards, if the credit card processor does not assist in transitioning our business to another credit card processor, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. The success of our business relies on customers’ continued and unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our services or charge their customers more for also using our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. Our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our service. Some providers of broadband access, including outside of the U.S., may take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our service, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services. In the U.S., it is not clear whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference. As a result of recent decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court and the FCC, providers of broadband services are subject to relatively light regulation by the FCC. Consequently, federal and state regulators might not prohibit broadband providers from limiting their customers’ access to VoIP or otherwise discriminating against VoIP providers. In August 2008, however, the FCC found that it had the authority to order a major cable operator to cease using network management practices that interfered with its broadband service users’ ability to use certain types of applications. The cable operator has sought judicial review of the FCC’s decision. Interference with our service or higher charges for also using our service could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and harm our revenue and growth. These problems could also arise in international markets. Because much of our potential success and value lies in our use of internally developed systems and software, if we fail to protect them, it could negatively affect us. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in large part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally based on open standards. While we have three internally developed issued patents, a number of pending patent applications, and acquired three patents from Digital Packet Licensing, Inc., we cannot patent much of the technology that is important to our business. To date, we have relied on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. We typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and vendors in an effort to control access to and distribution of technology, software, documentation and other information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use this technology without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of this technology is difficult. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions outside the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business. Regulation of VoIP services is developing and therefore uncertain, and future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability. Our business has developed in an environment largely free from government regulation. However, the United States and other countries have begun to assert regulatory authority over VoIP and are continuing to evaluate how VoIP will be regulated in the future. Both the application of existing rules to us and our competitors and the effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. If we become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers in individual states, we may incur significant litigation and compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to 15 Table of Contents customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. Our international operations are also subject to regulatory risks, including the risk that regulations in some jurisdictions will prohibit us from providing our services cost-effectively or at all, which could limit our growth. Currently, there are several countries where regulations prohibit us from offering service. In addition, because customers can use our services almost anywhere that a broadband Internet connection is available, including countries where providing VoIP services is illegal, the governments of those countries may attempt to assert jurisdiction over us, which could expose us to significant liability and regulation. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which was remediated as of December 31, 2007 and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future that may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements of our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We reported a material weakness that existed in the design of our internal control procedures relating to recording stock-based compensation expense during 2007, which was remediated as of December 31, 2007. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm the market value of our common stock. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls also could impair our ability to manage our business and harm our financial results. Our common stockholders may suffer dilution in the future upon exercise of our Convertible Notes. In connection with the Financing, we issued $18,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes to Silver Point Finance, LLC, certain of its affiliates, other third parties and affiliates of us. In 2009, an aggregate of $12,305 principal amount of Convertible Notes were converted into 42,431 shares of our common stock. If the remaining conversion rights in the Convertible Notes are exercised, the exercising note holders may obtain a significant equity interest in us and other stockholders may experience significant and immediate dilution. Conversion of the entire remaining $5,695 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes at the initial conversion rate would have resulted in an increase of our outstanding common stock from 199,898 shares (as of December 31, 2009) to 219,536 shares, an approximate 9.0% dilution to our common stockholders. Jeffrey A. Citron, our founder, Chairman and a significant stockholder, exerts significant influence over us. As of December 31, 2009, Mr. Citron beneficially owned approximately 28.3% of our outstanding common stock, including outstanding securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock within 60 days of such date. As a result, Mr. Citron is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our Chairman, Mr. Citron has and will continue to have significant influence over our strategy and other matters. Mr. Citron’s interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We may be unable to fully realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards if an ownership change occurs. If we were to experience another “change in ownership” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”), the NOL carry forward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the change in ownership. If a change in ownership were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset future taxable income. In general, a change in ownership occurs when, as of any testing date, there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of the corporation held by 5% stockholders of more than 50 percentage points over an applicable three-year period. For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during an applicable three-year period has owned 5% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding common stock are grouped together as one or more “public group” 5% stockholders. Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly (though intervening entities) and constructively (by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group). The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Securities markets experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price of our shares. These factors include: > changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; > any shortfall in revenue or increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; > judgments in our litigation; > changes in regulatory policies or tax law; > operating performance of companies comparable to us; and > general economic trends and other external factors. If any of these factors causes the price of our common stock to fall, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. 16 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the agreements governing our indebtedness and the terms of certain settlement agreements to which we are a party contain provisions that could delay or discourage a takeover attempt, which could prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws may make it more difficult for, or have the effect of discouraging, a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions: > permit our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock and to establish the number of shares, series designation, voting powers (if any), preferences, other special rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of any series of preferred stock; > limit the ability of stockholders to amend our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws, including supermajority requirements; > allow only our board of directors, Chairman of the board of directors or Chief Executive Officer to call special meetings of our stockholders; > eliminate the ability of stockholders to act by written consent; > require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations; > limit the removal of directors and the filling of director vacancies; and > establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms. In addition, a change of control would constitute an event of default under our Financing agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders and the note holders could elect to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the Financing agreements, including principal, accrued interest, a “make-whole” premium and, in the case of the Convertible Notes, liquidated damages, and may take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness. Under our Financing agreements, a “change of control” would result from the occurrence of, among other things: > the disposition by Jeffrey A. Citron, our Chairman, or certain of his affiliates of shares of common stock in excess of certain specified amounts; > the acquisition by any person or group (other than Mr. Citron and his majority-controlled affiliates or certain investment funds related to New Enterprise Associates) of at least 30% of the voting and/or economic interest of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis or of the power to elect a majority of our board of directors, if such acquiror also has a greater voting and/or economic interest in our company than Mr. Citron and his majority-owned affiliates; > a change in our Chief Executive Officer, unless an interim successor and permanent successor reasonably acceptable to the administrative agent and note agent is appointed within specified time periods; or > the acquisition by Silver Point Finance, LLC and its affiliates and related funds of at least 50% of the voting and/or economic interest of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis or those entities obtaining the power to elect a majority of our board of directors. We encourage you to read the agreements in full, including the definition of “change of control” therein. These Financing agreements have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as exhibits to Amendment No. 8 to our Schedule TO, which was filed on October 22, 2008. Further, we were named as a defendant in several suits that related to patent infringement and entered into agreements to settle certain of the suits in 2007. Certain terms of those agreements, including licenses and covenants not to sue, will be restricted upon a change of control, which may discourage certain potential purchasers from acquiring us. Such provisions could have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. Any delay or prevention of, or significant payments required to be made upon, a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 