ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. For the financial information discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than per share and per line amounts, dollar amounts are presented in thousands, except where noted. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenue. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face increasingly intense competition from traditional telephone companies, cable companies, wireless companies, and alternative communication providers. Our competitors include the traditional telephone service providers, including AT&T, Qwest Communications, and Verizon Communications, which provide telephone service based on the public switched telephone network. Some of these traditional providers also have added VoIP services to their existing telephone and broadband offerings. We also face competition from cable companies, such as Cablevision, Charter Communications, Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, and Time Warner Cable, which have added VoIP services to their existing cable television and broadband offerings. Further, as wireless providers, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, and Verizon Wireless, offer more minutes at lower prices, better coverage, and companion landline alternative services, including through products such as dual mode phones and femtocells, their services have become more attractive to households as a replacement for wire line service. Most traditional wire line and wireless telephone service providers and cable companies are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of greater name and brand name recognition and a large existing customer base. Because most of our target customers are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers. Our competitors’ financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. Our competitors also could use their greater financial resources to develop and market telephony and messaging services with more attractive features and more robust customer service. In addition, because of the other services our competitors provide, they often choose to offer VoIP services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as video, high speed Internet access, and wireless telephone service, which we do not offer. This bundle may enable our competitors to offer VoIP service at prices with which we may not be able to compete or to offer functionality that integrates VoIP service with their other offerings, both of which may be more desirable to consumers. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, reduce our market share and revenues, or cause us to lower our prices or offer additional features that may result in additional costs without commensurate price increases. We also compete against established alternative communication providers, such as Skype, Google Voice, magicJack, and independent VoIP service providers, some of which are larger than us, have greater name and brand recognition, and have the ability to devote greater resources to their communications services. Some of these service providers, including Internet product and software companies, have chosen to sacrifice telephony revenue in order to gain market share or attract customers to their platform and have offered their services at low prices or for free. As we continue the introduction of applications that integrate different forms of voice, video, and messaging services over multiple devices, we are likely to face competition from emerging competitors focused on similar integration, as well as from established alternative communication providers. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to reduce our prices, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increases. As a result of increasing competition, domestic and international telephony and messaging rates have generally decreased during the past few years, and we expect this trend to continue. We also pass through regulatory funding obligations to customers and these costs are expected to increase for certain customers as a result of a November 2010 order by the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) that permits states to impose state universal service fund obligations on VoIP providers. We also receive inquiries or demands from state and municipal taxing authorities seeking payment of taxes or similar fees, which taxes and fees are charged to customers. Continued rate pressures or increasing cost to use our services could lessen or eliminate the pricing advantage that we maintain over certain competitors and cause customers or potential customers to select alternative providers or cause us to lower our prices, which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability. We also are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice and messaging services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us. There is a continuing trend toward consolidation of telecommunications companies, including the acquisition of alternative communication providers by Internet product and software companies, which may create competitors with greater resources. In addition, certain of our competitors have partnered and may in the future partner with other competitors to offer products and services, leveraging their collective competitive positions, which makes it more difficult to compete with them and could affect our profitability. If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for voice and messaging services, then our products and services could become obsolete. The market for our products is constantly and rapidly evolving as we and our competitors introduce new and enhanced products and services and react to changes in VoIP and messaging technology and customer demands. We may not be able to develop or acquire new products and plans or product and plan enhancements that compete effectively with present or emerging VoIP and messaging technologies or differentiate our products and plans based on functionality and performance. In addition, we 9 Table of Contents may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances that will permit enhancement opportunities or innovative distribution methods for our products and plans. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. To succeed, we believe that we need to expand into new market segments, develop new sources of revenue from new and existing customers, enhance our current products and plans, and develop new products and plans on a timely basis to keep pace with market needs and satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of customers. VoIP and messaging technology is complex, and new products and plans and product and plan enhancements can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products and plans, including as a result of any limitations with our internal systems or the integration of our new ordering and billing platforms, could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and customers. Any technical flaws in products we release could diminish the innovative impact of the products and have a negative effect on customer adoption and our reputation. If we are unsuccessful at retaining customers or attracting new customers, including customers who pay for our services for mobile and other Internet connected devices, we may experience a reduction in revenue or may be required to spend more money to grow our customer base. Our rate of customer terminations, or average monthly customer churn, was 2.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010. During 2010, we added 607,772 customers while 617,234 of our customers terminated. In September 2010, we eliminated the minimum service period requirement for new customers. Our churn rate could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with the quality and reliability of our network, the value proposition of our products, and the ability of our customer service to meet the needs and expectations of our customers. In addition, increased competition from other providers, increasing wireless substitution, disruptive technologies, general economic conditions, and our ability to activate and register new customers on the network, also influence our churn rate. Because of churn, we have to acquire new customers on an ongoing basis just to maintain our existing level of customers and revenues. As a result, marketing expense is an ongoing requirement of our business. If our churn rate increases, we will have to acquire even more new customers in order to maintain our existing revenues. We incur significant costs to acquire new customers, and those costs are an important factor in maintaining profitability. Therefore, if we are unsuccessful in retaining customers, are required to spend significant amounts to acquire new customers beyond those budgeted, or our marketing and advertising efforts are not effective in targeting specific customer segments, our revenue could decrease and our net losses could increase. In August 2010, we introduced Vonage Mobile for Facebook, which is a free service. In the future, we may introduce other free services for mobile and other connected devices. As an optional feature of these free services, we may offer and charge for premium services such as international calling plans, alternatives for high priced international roaming services, and lower cost text messaging. If we are unable to attract users of these premium services, our net revenues may fail to grow as we expect. We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of our company. There has been substantial litigation in the VoIP and related industries regarding intellectual property rights and, given the rapid technological change in our industry and our continual development of new products and services, we and/or our commercial partners may be subject to infringement claims from time to time. For example, we may be unaware of filed patent applications and issued patents that could include claims covering our products and services. We were subject to patent infringement claims in the past, including suits that we settled in 2007 and 2008 for a total of $243,825 with Verizon, Sprint, AT&T, Nortel Networks, and others. We are also currently named as a defendant in a suit that relates to patent infringement and from time to time we receive letters from third parties initiating an opportunity for us to obtain licenses to patents that may be relevant to our business. See “Item 3. – Legal Proceedings—IP Matters.” Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial royalties, licensing fees, damages or settlement fees. The defense of any lawsuit could divert management’s efforts and attention from ordinary business operations and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims. These outcomes may: > result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers; > lead to an event of default under the terms of our credit facility, which could permit the lenders to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the credit facility, including principal and accrued interest, and take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness; > cause us to accelerate expenditures to preserve existing revenues; > cause existing or new vendors to require prepayments or letters of credit; > cause our credit card processors to demand reserves or letters of credit or make holdbacks; > result in substantial employee layoffs; > materially and adversely affect our brand in the market place and cause a substantial loss of goodwill; > cause our stock price to decline significantly or otherwise cause us to fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, which could distract management and result in the delisting of our common stock from the exchange; > materially and adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay debts and other obligations as they become due; > cause us to change our business methods or services; > require us to cease certain business operations or offering certain products and services; and > lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation. 10 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Table of Contents If we fail to protect our internally developed systems and software and our trademarks, we may become involved in costly litigation or our business or brand may be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in large part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally based on open standards. While we have five internally developed issued patents, a number of pending patent applications, and acquired three patents from Digital Packet Licensing, Inc., we cannot patent much of the technology that is important to our business. Our pending patent applications may not be granted. Any issued patent that we own may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented. To date, we have relied on copyright and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. We typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and vendors in an effort to control access to and distribution of technology, software, documentation, and other information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use this technology without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of this technology is difficult. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions outside the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business. The unlicensed use of our brand by third parties could harm our reputation, cause confusion among our customers, and impair our ability to market our services. To that end, we have registered numerous trademarks and service marks and have applied for registration of our trademarks and service marks in the United States and abroad to establish and protect our brand names as part of our intellectual property strategy. If our applications receive objections or are successfully opposed by third parties, it will be difficult for us to prevent third parties from using our brand without our permission. Moreover, successful opposition to our applications might encourage third parties to make additional oppositions or commence trademark infringement proceedings against us, which could be costly and time consuming to defend against. If we decide to take limited or no action to protect our trademarks, our trademark rights may be diluted and subject to challenge or invalidation, which could materially and adversely affect our brand in the market place. Certain rights to third party patents and technology may expire and not be extended, or may not be available. Certain previously disclosed patent rights granted to the Company under our agreements with Verizon, AT&T, and Sprint will expire between October 2011 and May 2014. It may be necessary to negotiate extensions of such rights, and if so and we are unable to do so on terms acceptable to us upon expiration, our making, using and selling of existing and future products and services may be subject to challenges as infringing Verizon, AT&T or Sprint patents. In addition, we may seek to obtain rights to third party technology in the future, but may not be able to agree upon commercially reasonable terms or at all with respect to obtaining such rights. If we are unable to extend existing licenses or are unable to obtain rights to other technology that may be commercially advantageous or necessary for our product and service offerings, we may experience a decrease in the quality of our products or services or we may lose the ability to provide our products and services on a non-infringing basis until alternative technology or suitable alternative products and services can be developed, identified, obtained (through acquisition, license or other grants of rights), and integrated. Our ability to provide our telephony service and manage related customer accounts is dependent upon third-party facilities, equipment, and systems, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, limit our growth, and affect our financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable telephony service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wire line telephone service or wireless service, our service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer’s Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer’s broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. We outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. For example, we outsource the maintenance of our regional data connection points, which are the facilities at which our network interconnects with the public switched telephone network. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities have in the past caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers, and our brand, reputation, and growth will be negatively impacted. In order to access our residential, small office, and home office services, a customer needs to connect a standard telephone to a broadband Internet connection through a Vonage-enabled device that we provide. Although we closely monitor inventory levels, if we are unable to procure a sufficient number of devices from our single supplier in a timely manner, including as a result of a failure by a component supplier, we would be delayed in activating new customers and may lose these customers. We also rely on third parties for some of our back office functions. For example, in December 2009, we entered into an agreement with Amdocs, Inc. to license systems to enhance our ordering and billing capabilities. We expect to begin transitioning to the new systems in 2011. Any challenges we encounter with the implementation of the new systems or the transition could affect customer satisfaction. Any failure to develop and implement ordering and billing systems that meet our requirements in a timely manner, or at all, may materially affect our ability to 11 Table of Contents introduce next generation products on the schedule that we prefer and could result in increased costs to enhance our existing ordering and billing systems or procure replacement systems. As a result, our growth, system of internal controls, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on third parties to provide a portion of our customer service representatives, provide aspects of our E-911 service, and initiate local number portability for our customers. If these third parties do not provide our customers with reliable, high-quality service, our reputation will be harmed and we may lose customers. We offer our customers support 24 hours a day, seven days a week through both our comprehensive online account management website and our toll free number. Our customer support is currently provided via United States based employees as well as third party partners located in the United States, Philippines, Costa Rica, Chile, and India. We offer support in English, Spanish, and French Canadian. Our third-party providers generally represent us without identifying themselves as independent parties. The ability to support our customers may be disrupted by natural disasters, inclement weather conditions, civil unrest, and other adverse events in the locations where our customer support is provided. We also contract for services required to provide E-911 services including assistance in routing emergency calls, terminating E-911 calls, operating a national call center that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to receive certain emergency calls, and maintaining PSAP databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services. Interruptions in service from our vendor could cause failures in our customers’ access to E-911 services and expose us to liability and damage our reputation. We also have agreements with companies that initiate our local number portability, which allow new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services. If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services. Flaws in our technology and systems, our failure to adapt our systems to any new Internet Protocol, or hacker attacks could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, and limit our growth. Although we have designed our service network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our service may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems, such as malfunctions in our software or other facilities and overloading of our network. As we attract new subscribers, we expect increased call volume that we need to manage to avoid network interruptions. In particular, as we have marketed to different international long distance markets, we have seen international call volumes to targeted countries increase. During the next few years we expect wide-spread industry adoption of a new Internet Protocol, which is a set of standard communications and routing mechanisms. Customers may experience periodic delays of service caused by the industry transition to this new Internet Protocol. Interruptions have caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers and offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Network interruptions may also impair our ability to sign-up new customers. During 2010, we had multiple outages that affected groups of customers at various times, some of which affected large groups of customers for several hours. In addition, because our systems and our customers’ ability to use our services are Internet-dependent, our services may be subject to “hacker attacks” from the Internet, which could have a significant impact on our systems and services. If service interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our brand reputation and growth may suffer. Third parties may fraudulently use our name to obtain access to customer accounts and other personal information, use our services to commit fraud or steal our services, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Our customers have been subject to “phishing,” which occurs when a third party sends an email or pop-up message to a customer that claims to be from a business or organization that provides services to the customer. The purpose of the inquiry is typically to encourage the customer to visit a bogus website designed to look like a website operated by the legitimate business or organization. At the bogus website, the operator attempts to trick the customer into divulging customer account or other personal information such as credit card information or to introduce viruses through “trojan horse” programs to the customers’ computers. This has resulted in identity theft from our customers and the unauthorized use of Vonage services. Third parties have also used our communications services to commit fraud. Although we have engaged a third party to assist in the shutdown of purported phishing sites, if we are unable to detect and prevent “phishing,” use of our services for fraud, and similar activities, our brand reputation and growth may suffer and we may incur additional costs, including costs to increase security, or be required to credit significant amounts to customers. Third parties also have used our communications services without paying, including by submitting fraudulent credit card information. This has resulted in our incurring the cost of providing the services, including incurring call termination fees, without any corresponding revenues. We have implemented anti-fraud procedures in order to limit the expenses resulting from theft of service, which were not material in 2010. If our procedures are not effective, theft of service could significantly increase our expenses and negatively impact our profitability. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to maintain data security and meet Payment Card Industry data security standards. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Any failure to maintain the security of our data and our employees’ and customers’ confidential information, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential information, could result in financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings, and private litigation with potentially large costs. Any such failure also could put us at a competitive disadvantage and result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Table of Contents We make available on our website our privacy policy, which describes how we collect, use, and disclose our customers’ personal information. As we expand our international operations into new geographies, we may become subject to local data security, privacy, data retention, and disclosure laws and regulations. It may be difficult for us to comply with these laws and regulations if they were deemed to be applicable to us. We are subject to Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. PCI data security standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide, and VISA Inc., to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. Failure to comply with the security requirements as identified in subsequent audits or rectify a security issue may result in fines. While we believe it is unusual, restrictions on accepting payment cards, including a complete restriction, may be imposed on companies that are not compliant. We may incur significant costs and harm to our reputation from lawsuits and regulatory inquiries related to our business practices, which may also divert the attention of our management from other aspects of our business. We were named in several purported class actions in California, New Jersey, and Washington that alleged a wide variety of deficiencies with respect to our business practices, marketing disclosures, e-mail marketing, and quality issues for both phone and fax service. In 2010, the parties reached a proposed settlement that included a release and dismissal with prejudice of all consumer claims against us and provided a settlement benefit of $4,750 into a common fund for the benefit of class members. The common fund will include all awarded fees, costs, and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs), some of the costs to provide notice of settlement, administrative expenses, and incentive awards, if any, with the remainder of the common fund to be distributed to members of the class pursuant to a plan of allocation among class members. We have also been subject to periodic regulatory inquiries regarding our business practices, including an investigation settled in 2009 with a group of 32 States attorney generals into certain of our business practices. There was no finding of any violation or wrongdoing by us, and the 32 states participating in the settlement have released us and our affiliates from the matters investigated. In connection with the settlement, we agreed to pay an aggregate of $3,000 to the participating states, including amounts to cover legal and investigation fees incurred. To improve the customer experience and promote continued customer satisfaction, we also agreed to implement certain enhancements to our business practices, many of which we implemented prior to completion of the settlement. We also agreed to provide refunds for certain affected consumers. Any such claims or regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. We may need to spend significant amounts on our legal defense, senior management may be required to divert their attention from other portions of our business, new product launches may be deferred or canceled as a result of any proceedings, and we may be required to make changes to our present and planned products or services. If, as a result of any proceedings, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and harm our reputation. If we require additional capital, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. We may need to pursue additional financing to respond to new competitive pressures, pay extraordinary expenses such as litigation settlements or judgments or fund growth, including through acquisitions. Because of our past significant losses and our limited tangible assets, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets. In addition, the credit documentation for our recent financing contains affirmative and negative covenants that affect, and in many respects may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur, refinance or modify indebtedness and create liens. The debt agreements governing our December 2010 financing contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. On December 14, 2010, we consummated a financing consisting of a $200,000 senior secured term loan (the “Credit Facility”) replacing our November 2008 financing. The Credit Facility contains various covenants and other restrictions that limit our ability and/or the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants and other restrictions may under certain circumstances limit, but not necessarily preclude, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: > incur, refinance or modify indebtedness; > create liens; > pay cash dividends on or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; > make investments in excess of certain amounts; > enter into acquisitions, sales, and mergers in excess of certain amounts; > enter into sale and leaseback transactions; > amend our organizational documents; > substantially change the nature of our business; and > enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates. Under the Credit Facility, we are required to maintain a specified maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. In addition, the Credit Facility limits our capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with such financial and other covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, so we may not be able to comply with these covenants. A breach of any such covenant could result in a default under the Credit Facility. In that case, the lenders could elect to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the Credit Facility, including principal and accrued interest, and may take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness. 13 Table of Contents Our credit card processors have the ability to take significant holdbacks in certain circumstances. The reinstatement of such holdbacks likely would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Historically, our credit card processors have established reserves to cover any exposure that they may have as we collect revenue in advance of providing services to our customers, which is a customary practice for companies that bill their customers in advance of providing services. During 2010, our credit card processors released all reserves which consisted of cash reserves of $23,101 and a cash-collateralized letter of credit for $10,500. Under our credit card processing agreements with our Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover credit card processors, the credit card processor has the right, in certain circumstances, including adverse events affecting our business, to impose a holdback of our advanced payments purchased using a Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover credit card, as applicable, or demand additional reserves or other security. If circumstances were to occur that would allow any of these processors to reinstate a holdback, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. In addition, our Visa and MasterCard credit card processing agreement may be terminated by the credit card processor at its discretion if we are deemed to be financially insecure. As a significant portion of payments to us are made through Visa and MasterCard credit cards, if the credit card processor does not assist in transitioning our business to another credit card processor, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. The success of our business relies on customers’ continued and unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be able to block our services or charge their customers more for also using our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth. Our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our service. Some providers of broadband access, including outside of the United States, may take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our service, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services. In the United States, it is not clear whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference. As a result of recent decisions by the United States Supreme Court and the FCC, providers of broadband services are subject to relatively light regulation by the FCC. Consequently, federal and state regulators might not prohibit broadband providers from limiting their customers’ access to VoIP or otherwise discriminating against VoIP providers. In August 2008, however, the FCC found that it had the authority to order a major cable operator to cease using network management practices that interfered with its broadband service users’ ability to use certain types of applications. The cable operator sought judicial review of the FCC’s decision and the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit granted the cable operator’s appeal finding that the FCC had not adequately justified its authority to regulate the cable operator’s conduct. More recently in December 2010, the FCC adopted new net neutrality rules that would protect services like ours from interference. Several providers have already sought judicial review of the FCC’s new net neutrality rules. Interference with our service or higher charges for also using our service could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. These problems could also arise in international markets. Regulation of VoIP services is developing and therefore uncertain, and future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability. Our business has developed in a relatively lightly regulated environment. However, the United States and other countries have begun to assert regulatory authority over VoIP and are continuing to evaluate how VoIP will be regulated in the future. Both the application of certain existing rules to us and our competitors and the effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain. Interconnected VoIP providers, such as Vonage, are subject to certain FCC rules. For example, on August 5, 2005, the FCC released an Order extending the obligations of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) to interconnected VoIP providers. Under CALEA, telecommunications carriers must assist law enforcement in executing electronic surveillance, which include the capability of providing call content and call-identifying information to a local enforcement agency, or LEA, pursuant to a court order or other lawful authorization. To date, we have taken significant steps towards CALEA compliance. We could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC if our CALEA solution is deemed not fully operational. Effective February 2, 2011, another FCC order reduced to one business day the amount of time that a telecommunications provider such as Vonage has to port a telephone number to another provider. If we, or third parties we rely upon for porting, have difficulty complying with the new one-day porting requirement, we could be subject to FCC enforcement action. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. If we become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers in individual states, we may incur significant litigation and compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets, or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. As we expand our international operations into new geographies, we will be increasingly subject to risks that are inherent in operating abroad, including increased governmental regulation, currency restrictions, and other restraints and burdensome taxes. Our services are in use in countries outside of the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom where we have regular operations including countries where providing VoIP services is illegal. It is possible that governments outside of the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom may try to subject our services to governmental regulations, including telecommunications, data retention, privacy, consumer protection, financial, and other laws and regulations. In addition, if these governments believe that we are providing unauthorized service in 14 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Table of Contents their countries, they may pursue fines, penalties, or other governmental action, including criminal action, that may damage our brand and reputation. As we expand our international operations into new geographies, we expect to become subject to numerous additional governmental regulations, including telecommunications, data retention, privacy, consumer protection, financial, and other applicable laws and regulations. Some of these regulations may be complicated or unsettled. Any failure to comply with governmental regulation could result in fines, penalties, or other governmental action, including criminal action, and may damage our brand and reputation. In addition, changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and enforcement policies, may from time to time require modifications to our offerings or the payment of fines and penalties, or both. In the United States, Canada, and United Kingdom, we are not a regulated telecommunications business. We may need to change our service offerings to avoid regulation as a telecommunications business in a jurisdiction or if we are treated as a regulated telecommunications business, we may be required to incur additional expenses. If we use a local partner to provide services in a country and the local partner does not comply with applicable governmental regulations, we may face additional regulation, liabilities, penalties or other governmental action, and our brand and reputation may be harmed. As a United States-based company, any foreign subsidiary that we use for international operations may be subject to a variety of governmental regulations in the countries where we market our products, including tariffs and taxes. For example, distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, received from our foreign subsidiaries may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by the jurisdiction in which such entities are formed or operating, which will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive. In general, as a United States corporation, we may claim a foreign tax credit against our federal income tax expense for such foreign withholding taxes and for foreign income taxes paid directly by foreign corporate entities in which we own 10% or more of the voting stock. The ability to claim such foreign tax credits and to utilize net foreign losses is, however, subject to numerous limitations, and we may incur incremental tax costs as a result of these limitations or because we are not currently in a tax-paying position in the United States. We may also be required to include in our income for United States federal income tax purposes our proportionate share of certain earnings of those foreign subsidiaries that are classified as “controlled foreign corporations” without regard to whether distributions have been actually received from such subsidiaries. As we expand international operations we will become more dependent on the economies of the markets in which we have operations. These markets are expected to be in countries with economies in various stages of development or structural reform, and our operations in such markets also could be affected by: > political, social and economic instability; > war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; > taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; > imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into United States dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; > hyperinflation; and > impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments. Our international operations involve transactions in a variety of currencies. Our financial results may be significantly affected by fluctuations of currency exchange rates. To the extent that foreign subsidiaries distribute dividends in local currencies in the future, the amount of cash to be received by us will be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, and such shifts in the currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on us. We do not maintain derivatives for managing foreign currency exchange rate risks. A number of our agreements are governed by the laws of, and subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, or through arbitration proceedings in, the country or region in which the operations are located. We cannot accurately predict whether such forum will provide us with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise in the future. Even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain or enforce relief in the United States is uncertain. If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. For certain users, aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service. Our continued growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers, so these differences are important. For example: > Both our E-911 and emergency calling services are different, in significant respects, from the 911 service associated with traditional wire line and wireless telephone providers and, in certain cases, with other VoIP providers. > Our customers may experience lower call quality than they are used to from traditional wire line telephone companies, including static, echoes, and delays in transmissions. > Our customers may experience higher dropped-call rates than they are used to from traditional wire line telephone companies. > Customers who obtain new phone numbers from us do not appear in the phone book and their phone numbers are not available through directory assistance services offered by traditional telephone companies. > Our customers cannot accept collect calls. > Our customers cannot call premium-rate telephone numbers such as 1-900 numbers and 976 numbers. > In the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption experienced by a customer, our service is interrupted. Unlike some of our competitors, we have not installed batteries at customer premises to provide emergency power for our customers’ equipment if they lose power, although we do have backup power systems for our network equipment and service platform. If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain 15 Table of Contents with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. Our emergency and E-911 calling services may expose us to significant liability. The FCC rules for the provision of 911 service by interconnected VoIP providers, such as the VoIP service we provide, require that for all geographic areas covered by the traditional wire line E-911 network, interconnected VoIP providers must provide E-911 service as defined by the FCC’s rules. Under the FCC’s rules, E-911 service means that interconnected VoIP providers must transmit the caller’s telephone number and registered location information to the appropriate PSAP for the caller’s registered location. Vonage provides E-911 service, under the FCC’s rules, to approximately 99.97% of its subscriber lines. The remaining subscriber lines do not have E-911 service for a variety of reasons including refusal by PSAPs to accept VoIP 911 calls, the inability of PSAPs to receive the registered location data from us, and the failure by third party companies with whom we contract to provide aspects of our E-911 service to obtain the necessary access or complete implementation of the necessary interfaces to the traditional wire line E-911 infrastructure. In addition, certain of our services designed to be highly mobile including soft phone service, which is software that enables a customer to make telephone calls from a computer, route callers to a national emergency call center that in turns routes the call to the appropriate PSAP. We could be subject to enforcement action by the FCC for our subscriber lines that do not have E-911 service. This enforcement action could result in significant monetary penalties and restrictions on our ability to offer non-compliant services. Delays our customers may encounter when making emergency services calls and any inability of a PSAP to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number can have devastating consequences. Customers have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. In July 2008, the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008 became law and provided that interconnected VoIP providers have the same protections from liability for the operation of 911 service as traditional wire line and wireless providers. Limitations on liability for the provision of 911 service are normally governed by state law and these limitations typically are not absolute. Thus, for example, we could be subject to liability for a problem with our 911 service where our failures are greater than mere negligence. It is also unclear under the FCC’s rules whether the limitations on liability would apply to those subscriber lines where Vonage does not provide E-911 service. We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected. Many of the key responsibilities of our business have been assigned to a relatively small number of individuals. Our future success depends to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience, and effort of our senior management, especially Marc P. Lefar, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our continued growth depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced key employees. We have incurred losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur losses in the future. While we achieved profitability in certain quarters in 2009 and 2010 under United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), we incurred net losses of $42,598 and $83,665 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. For the period from our inception through December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $1,171,901. Our net losses initially were driven primarily by start-up costs and the cost of developing our technology and later by patent litigation settlements and marketing expenses. Most recently, our net losses have been driven principally by marketing expenses, investments in research and development and customer care, increased interest expense as a result of the financing that we completed in November 2008 and non-cash charges associated with the conversion feature of the now converted convertible notes and our December 2010 refinancing. Although we believe we will achieve consistent profitability in the future, we ultimately may not be successful. We believe that our ability to achieve consistent profitability will depend, among other factors, on our ability to continue to achieve and maintain substantive operational improvements and structural cost reductions while maintaining and growing our net revenues. In addition, certain of the costs of our business are not within our control and may increase. For example, we and other telecommunications providers are subject to regulatory termination charges imposed by regulatory authorities in countries to which customers make calls, such as India where regulatory authorities have been petitioned by local providers to consider termination rate increases. As we attract additional international long distance callers, we will be more affected by these increases to the extent that we are unable to offset such costs by passing through price increases to customers. Jeffrey A. Citron, our founder, non-executive Chairman, and a significant stockholder, exerts significant influence over us. As of December 31, 2010, Mr. Citron beneficially owned approximately 26.0% of our outstanding common stock, including outstanding securities exercisable for common stock within 60 days of such date. As a result, Mr. Citron is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our non-executive Chairman, Mr. Citron has and will continue to have influence over our strategy and other matters as a board member. Mr. Citron’s interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We may be unable to fully realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards if an ownership change occurs. If we were to experience another “change in ownership” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”), the NOL carry forward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the change in ownership. If a change in ownership were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset future 16 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Table of Contents taxable income. In general, a change in ownership occurs when, as of any testing date, there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of the corporation held by 5% stockholders of more than 50 percentage points over an applicable three-year period. For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during an applicable three-year period has owned 5% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding common stock are grouped together as one or more “public group” 5% stockholders. Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly (though intervening entities), and constructively (by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group). The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Securities markets experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price of our shares. These factors include: > changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; > any shortfall in revenue or increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; > judgments in our litigation; > changes in regulatory policies or tax law; > operating performance of companies comparable to us; > general economic trends and other external factors; and > market conditions and competitive pressures that prevent us from executing on our future growth initiatives. If any of these factors causes the price of our common stock to fall, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the agreements governing our indebtedness and the terms of certain settlement agreements to which we are a party contain provisions that could delay or discourage a takeover attempt, which could prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws may make it more difficult for, or have the effect of discouraging, a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions: > permit our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock and to establish the number of shares, series designation, voting powers (if any), preferences, other special rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of any series of preferred stock; > limit the ability of stockholders to amend our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws, including supermajority requirements; > allow only our board of directors, Chairman of the board of directors or Chief Executive Officer to call special meetings of our stockholders; > eliminate the ability of stockholders to act by written consent; > require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations; > limit the removal of directors and the filling of director vacancies; and > establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms. In addition, a change of control would constitute an event of default under our Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the Credit Facility, including principal and accrued interest, and may take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness. Under our Credit Facility, a “change of control” would result from the occurrence of, among other things, the acquisition by any person or group (other than Mr. Citron and his majority-controlled affiliates) of 35% or more of the voting and/or economic interest of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis. We encourage you to read the agreement in full, including the definition of “change of control” therein. The Credit Facility has been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to a Form 8-K filed by us on December 14, 2010. Further, we were named as a defendant in several suits that related to patent infringement and entered into agreements to settle certain of the suits in 2007. Certain terms of those agreements, including licenses and covenants not to sue, will be restricted upon a change of control, which may discourage certain potential purchasers from acquiring us. Such provisions could have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. Any delay or prevention of, or significant payments required to be made upon, a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 