Item 1A: Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The loss of one or more of our significant customers may adversely affect our business. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total sales. In 2005, our 10 largest end customers accounted for approximately 59% of our total Net sales. Motorola, our largest end customer, accounted for 27% of our total Net sales and 69% of WMSG’s Net sales. Our purchase and supply agreement with Motorola does not obligate Motorola to purchase from us after 2006 and will not assure us of sales to Motorola in the future comparable to historical levels. The loss of Motorola or one of our other major end customers, or any substantial reduction in sales to any of these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life-cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience such downturns in the future. We may not be able to manage these downturns. Any future downturns of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Winning business is subject to a competitive selection process that can be lengthy and requires us to incur significant expense, and we may not be selected. Even after we win and begin a product design, a customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no sales from a product and adversely affect our results of operations. Our primary focus is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. Because we typically focus on only a few customers in a product area, the loss of a design win can sometimes result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. This can result in lost sales and could hurt our position in future competitive selection processes because we may be perceived as not being a technology leader. After winning a product design for one of our customers, we may still experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of the lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, a delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue. Finally, if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their equipment it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as the demand for our products falls. 12 Table of Contents We have become increasingly dependent on third party foundry relationships as part of our asset light strategy. If our production or manufacturing capacity at one of these facilities is delayed, interrupted or eliminated, we may not be able to satisfy customer demand. As part of our asset-light strategy, we have reduced the number of our owned manufacturing facilities. Since 2000, we have also sought to develop outsourcing arrangements for the manufacture and test and assembly of certain products and components. As a result, our products are manufactured in fewer of our own facilities, and we are increasingly relying on the utilization of third-party foundry manufacturing and assembly and test capacity. If production or manufacturing capacity is delayed, reduced or eliminated at one or more facilities, with fewer alternative facilities, manufacturing would be disrupted, we would have difficulties or delays in fulfilling our customer orders, and our sales could decline. In addition, if a third-party manufacturer fails to deliver quality products and components on time and at reasonable prices, we would have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, and our sales could decline. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. To the extent we rely on alliances and third-party design and/or manufacturing relationships, we face the following risks: • reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs; • manufacturing costs that are higher than anticipated; • inability of our manufacturing partners to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products; • decline in product reliability; • inability to maintain continuing relationships with our suppliers; and • restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages. If any of these risks are realized, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain or an increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our revenue or adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to keep pace with technological advances in our industry or if we pursue technologies that do not become commercially accepted, customers may not buy our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Technology is an important component of our business and growth strategy, and our success depends to a significant extent on the development, implementation and acceptance of new product designs and improvements. Our ability to develop products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements and at prices acceptable to our customers will be significant factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. In particular, to stay competitive, we must transition certain products to 300 millimeter manufacturing technology. Currently, most semiconductor manufacturing facilities, or fabs, process wafers with diameters of 150 millimeters or 200 millimeters. However, as industry technology continues to improve, we expect that a significant portion of new fabs and leading edge semiconductor manufacturing equipment will be configured for 300 millimeter wafers. Our transition to this technology requires access to 300 millimeter manufacturing capacity. We intend to access this technology through foundry or other alliances such as our five year jointly funded alliance with STMicroelectronics and Philips Semiconductors in Crolles, France, which expires in 2007. If we are unable to access, or are delayed in accessing, this technology, our ability to develop new products could suffer, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents If we cannot maintain our strategic relationships or if our strategic relationships fail to meet their goals of developing technologies or processes, we may lose our investment, and we may fail to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry. In the past, we have entered into strategic relationships to develop technologies and manufacturing processes. For example, we share a research and fabrication plant for the manufacturing of 300 millimeter wafers in Crolles, France with STMicroelectronics and Philips Semiconductors. If any of our strategic relationships do not accomplish our intended goals, we may lose our investment, and we may fail to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry. The demand for our products depends in large part on continued growth in the industries into which they are sold. A market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We derive and expect to continue to derive significant sales from the communications equipment industry and the transportation industry. Growth of demand in the communications equipment industry has in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly based on numerous factors, including: • capital spending levels of communications service providers; • lack of industry standards; • rate of adoption of new or alternative technologies; • changes in regulation of communications services; and • general economic conditions. We cannot assure you of the rate, or extent to which, the communications equipment industry will grow, if at all. Any continued decline in this industry could result in slower growth or a decline in demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, our sales have lagged as compared to our competitors in the semiconductor industry, and our market share has declined. We believe that this is in large part because of our focus on the communications equipment industry. Our automotive customer base is comprised largely of suppliers to U.S. and European automotive manufacturers. Shifts in demand away from U.S. and European automotive manufacturers or lower demand for U.S. and European automobiles could adversely affect our sales. In addition, Delphi Corporation (“Delphi”) has entered into labor negotiations with the United Auto Workers (“UAW”) in connection with Delphi’s bankruptcy. In connection with these negotiations, the UAW could declare a work stoppage at Delphi or other automotive industry companies. Any work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on the automotive industry. Because the automotive industry currently represents the largest portion of our TSPG segment Net sales, a work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on TSPG’s business and our results of operations. Furthermore, projected industry growth rates may not be as forecast, resulting in spending on process and product development well ahead of market requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our intellectual property rights. The semiconductor industry is characterized by the vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may and do assert against us their patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. See “Business—Legal Proceedings” for a description of the significant proceedings in which we are currently involved. Any claims that our products or processes infringe these rights (including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers), regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products or processes; • discontinue the use of the infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or may not be available at all; or • lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights or developing or licensing new intellectual property, which may harm our ability to compete and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We generate revenues from our intellectual property. These revenues are generated from the license of patents and manufacturing technologies to third parties. Our intellectual property revenues were approximately 3%, 2% and 3% of our revenues during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our future intellectual property revenue depends in part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio and enforcement efforts, and on the sales and financial stability of our licensees. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as on nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. In the past, we have found it necessary to engage in litigation with other companies to force those companies to execute revenue-bearing license agreements with us or prohibit their use of our intellectual property. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 for a description of the current proceedings that we initiated to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. These proceedings, and future proceedings, may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. We cannot assure you that: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property will be successful; • any of our existing or future patents will not be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented; or • any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any 15 Table of Contents of our patents fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. In addition, effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or of limited usefulness in protecting our technology in certain jurisdictions in which we and our competitors compete. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and other factors related to our international operations. We sell our products throughout the world. In 2005, over 70% of our products were sold in countries other than the United States. In addition, a majority of our operations and employees are located outside of the United States. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • changes in political, regulatory or economic conditions; • trade protection measures and price controls; • import or export licensing requirements; • economic downturns, civil disturbances or political instability; • currency restrictions; • differing labor standards; • differing protection of intellectual property; • nationalization and expropriation; and • potentially burdensome taxation and changes in foreign tax laws. International conflicts are creating many economic and political uncertainties that are impacting the global economy. A continued escalation of international conflicts could severely impact our operations and demand for our products. A majority of our products are manufactured in Asia, primarily in China, Japan, Malaysia and Taiwan. Any conflict or uncertainty in these countries, including due to public health or safety concerns (such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) or natural disasters (such as earthquakes), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the government of any country in which our products are manufactured or sold sets technical standards for products made in or imported into their country that are not widely shared, it may lead certain of our customers to suspend imports of their products into that country, require manufacturers in that country to manufacture products with different technical standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing partnerships which, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We prepare our financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our equity. Although we may seek to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where we deem it appropriate, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. To the extent we sell our products in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our products becoming too expensive for foreign customers. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on obtaining supplies and a reduction in supplies could negatively impact our business. A number of our supplies are obtained from one source. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We intend to engage in acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that may complement or expand our business. We may not be able to complete such transactions and such transactions, if executed, pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our operations. Our future success may be dependent on opportunities to enter into joint ventures and to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may not be able to complete such transactions, for reasons including, but not limited to, a failure to secure financing, as a result of our agreements with Motorola or as a result of restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; and • our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, which could increase our costs and restrict our operations in the future. We are subject to a variety of laws relating to the use, disposal, clean-up of, and human exposure to, hazardous materials. Any failure by us to comply with environmental, health and safety requirements could result in the limitation or suspension of production or subject us to future liabilities in excess of our reserves, including without limitation the production of lead-free products. In addition, compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses or modify our manufacturing processes. In the event of the discovery of new contamination, additional requirements with respect to existing contamination, or the imposition of other cleanup obligations for which we are responsible, we may be required to take remedial or other measures which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a description of environmental matters in which we are currently involved, see “Legal Proceedings—Environmental Matters” in Item 3. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, we have incurred and may in the future incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. We may be defendants in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the last few years, there has been increased media scrutiny and associated reports focusing on a potential link between working in semiconductor manufacturing clean room environments and certain illnesses, primarily different types of cancers. Regulatory agencies and industry associations have begun to study the issue to see if any actual correlation exists. Because we utilize these clean rooms, we may become subject to liability claims. In addition, these reports may also affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. 17 Table of Contents Due to environmental concerns, the need for lead-free solutions in electronic components and systems is receiving increasing attention within the semiconductor industry. We are taking steps to become compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the European legislation that will restrict the use of lead and some flame retardants in electronic components effective as of July 2006. Our compliance with the Restriction on Hazardous Substances Directive and any other requirements for lead-free products could cause us to incur substantial additional cost by potentially requiring us to devote more resources to research and development efforts, requiring us to change certain of our manufacturing or supply chain management processes or causing us to use more costly materials or to have obsolete inventory. Our products may be subject to product liability claims, which could be expensive and could divert management’s attention. Our semiconductors are incorporated into a number of end products. We face an inherent exposure to product liability claims if our semiconductors (or the equipment into which our semiconductors are incorporated) malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our products caused a loss. Product liability claims could result in significant expenses relating to defense costs or damages awards. In particular, the sale of systems and components for the transportation industry involves a high degree of risk that such claims may be made. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or in order to maintain good customer relationships. Each of these actions would likely harm our reputation and lead to substantial expense. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly capital intensive and, if we are unable to obtain the necessary capital, we may not remain competitive. Semiconductor manufacturing requires a constant upgrading of facilities and process technology to remain competitive. We intend to meet our capital needs through a variety of sources, including the capital markets. If we are unable to obtain capital on favorable terms, or if we are unable to obtain capital at all, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could impact our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. With the exception of our Chief Executive Officer, we do not have long-term retention contracts with our key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. We have recorded significant reorganization of business charges in the past and may do so again in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges relating to our efforts to consolidate manufacturing operations and streamline our global organizational structure in the amounts of $24 million, $68 million and $85 million, respectively. Due to a combination of the constant and rapid change experienced in the semiconductor industry, we may incur both employee termination and asset impairment charges in the future and such charges may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 