ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks below, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.For the financial information discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than per share and per line amounts, dollar amounts are presented in thousands, except where noted.If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenue.The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face continued intense competition from traditional telephone companies, cable companies, wireless companies, and alternative communication providers. Our competitors include the traditional telephone service providers, including AT&T, Verizon Communications, and CenturyLink, which provide telephone service based on the public switched telephone network. Some of these traditional providers also have added VoIP services to their existing telephone and broadband offerings. We also face competition from cable companies, such as Cablevision, Charter Communications, Comcast Corporation, Cox Communications, and Time Warner Cable. Traditional telephone service providers and cable companies have added VoIP services to their existing bundled cable television and broadband offerings. Further, as wireless providers, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile, and Verizon Wireless, offer more minutes at lower prices, better coverage, and companion landline alternative services, their services have become more attractive to households as a replacement for wireline service.Most traditional wireline and wireless telephone service providers and cable companies are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of greater name and brand name recognition and a large existing customer base. Because most of our target customers are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers. Our competitors' financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. Our competitors also could use their greater financial resources to develop and market telephony and messaging services with more attractive features and more robust customer service. In addition, because of the other services our competitors provide, they often choose to offer VoIP services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as video, high speed Internet access, and wireless telephone service, which we do not offer. This bundle may enable our competitors to offer VoIP service at prices with which we may not be able to compete or to offer functionality that integrates VoIP service with their other offerings, both of which may be more desirable to consumers. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, reduce our market share and revenues, or cause us to lower our prices or offer additional features that may result in additional costs without commensurate price increases.We also compete against alternative communication providers, such as magicJack, Skype, and Google Voice, some of which are larger than us, have greater name and brand recognition, and have the ability to devote greater resources to their communications services. Some of these service providers, including Internet product and software companies, have chosen to sacrifice telephony revenue in order to gain market share or attract customers to their platform or have lower cost structures and have offered their services at low prices or for free or are using different payment structures such as one-time or low annual fees. As we continue the introduction of applications that integrate different forms of voice and messaging services over multiple devices, we face competition from emerging competitors focused on similar integration, as well as from established alternative communication providers. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to reduce our prices, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increases.In connection with our increasing emphasis on the international long distance market, we face competition from low-cost international calling cards, digital calling cards and VoIP providers in addition to traditional telephone companies, cable companies, and wireless companies. To the extent that these providers target marketing to the same ethnic segments that we target or strengthen their offerings to these segments, we may have to reduce our prices or increase promotions, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increase.As a result of increasing competition, domestic and international telephony and messaging rates have generally decreased during the past few years, and we expect this trend to continue. Continued rate pressures or increasing cost to use our services could lessen or eliminate the pricing advantage that we maintain over certain competitors and cause customers or potential customers to select alternative providers or cause us to lower our prices, which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability.If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market for voice and messaging services, then our products and services could become obsolete.The market for our products and services is constantly and rapidly evolving as we and our competitors introduce new and enhanced products and services and react to changes in VoIP and messaging technology and customer demands. We may not be able to develop or acquire new products and plans or product and plan enhancements that compete effectively with present or emerging VoIP and messaging technologies or differentiate our products and plans based on functionality and performance. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain strategic alliances that will permit enhancement opportunities or innovative distribution methods for our products and plans.To address these issues, we are targeting revenue growth in large, existing international and mobile markets. Our growth initiatives, focused on the international long distance market, international expansion, and mobile markets, require us to enhance our current products and plans, and develop new products and plans on a timely basis to keep pace with market needs and satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of customers. For example, in early 2012, we introduced Vonage Mobile, our all-in-one mobile application that provides free calling and messaging between users who have the application, as well as traditional paid international calling to any other phone. Vonage Mobile is downloadable for free. In the future, we may enhance this service or introduce other similar services for mobile and other connected devices. These services may include optional added cost premium services such as international calling plans, alternatives for high priced international roaming services, and lower cost text messaging. If we are unable to attract users of these premium services offered by Vonage Mobile or future offerings, our net revenues may fail to grow as we expect. VoIP and messaging technology is complex, and new products and plans and enhancements to existing products and plans can require long development and testing periods. Any delays in developing and releasing new or enhanced products and plans could cause us to lose revenue opportunities and customers. Any technical flaws in products we release could diminish the innovative impact of the products and have a negative effect on customer adoption and our reputation. 8 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of ContentsWe also are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice and messaging services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us.If we are unsuccessful at retaining customers or attracting new customers, including customers who pay for our services for mobile and other internet connected devices, we may experience a reduction in revenue or may be required to spend more money or alter our marketing approaches to grow our customer base.Our rate of customer terminations for our broadband telephone replacement services, or average monthly customer churn, was 2.6% for the year ended December 31, 2012. During 2012, we added 570,316 customers while 629,984 of our customers terminated their service. Our churn rate could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with the quality and reliability of our network, the value proposition of our products, and the ability of our customer service to meet the needs and expectations of our customers. In addition, competition from traditional telephone companies, cable companies, wireless companies, alternative communications providers, and low-cost international calling cards, disruptive technologies, general economic conditions, and our ability to activate and register new customers on the network, also influence our churn rate. We will have similar issues with customers for Vonage Mobile and other services for mobile and other Internet connected devices as that business develops.As we continue to emphasize the international long distance market, we expect our churn to be impacted by the ethnic segments that we target. For example, we have found that certain ethnic segments have higher churn due to inability to use our existing payment methods. We may not be able to educate these customers in these payment methods or offer alternative payment methods that serve the needs of these customers. In addition, higher proportions of certain ethnic segments that we target may be more likely to have poor or no credit history, indicating that they may have more difficulty affording the service, leading to higher churn for these customers. Because of customer losses, we have to acquire new customers on an ongoing basis just to maintain our existing level of customers and revenues. As a result, marketing expense, and the effectiveness of our marketing vendors, is an ongoing requirement to maintain or grow our business. If our churn rate increases, we will have to acquire even more new customers in order to maintain our existing revenues. We incur significant costs to acquire new customers, and expect to continue to do so in connection with the execution of our growth initiatives, and those costs are an important factor in maintaining profitability. Therefore, if we are unsuccessful in retaining customers, are required to spend significant amounts to acquire new customers beyond those budgeted, or our marketing and advertising efforts are not effective in targeting specific customer segments, we may be forced to change marketing approaches or marketing vendors, our revenue could decrease or we could incur losses.If we are unable to establish and expand strategic relationships our ability to grow revenues and offer new products under commercially attractive terms may be inhibited, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. An element of our growth strategy is to develop and maintain strategic relationships both in the U.S. and internationally. We have or are pursuing relationships in the U.S. retail industry as well as international opportunities ranging from joint venture arrangements to providing full VoIP communication services to be marketed and distributed as a complement to an existing foreign provider's product suite. The development of these relationships may assist us in enhancing our brand, introducing our products and services to larger numbers of customers, developing and implementing new products and services, and generating additional revenue. We may not be able to enter into new relationships in the U.S. or internationally on economic terms favorable to us. In addition, if we lose any of our important strategic relationships or if strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, our ability to grow revenues and offer new products may be inhibited, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, we are increasingly reliant upon relationships with mass merchant retailers and our shift to assisted selling programs. The loss or deterioration of these relationships could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our international long distance business and our expanding international operations are increasingly subject to country-specific governmental regulation and related actions and taxes that may increase our costs or impact our product offerings.As we execute on our growth initiatives and expand our international operations into new geographies, we expect to become subject to numerous additional governmental regulations, including telecommunications, data retention, privacy, consumer protection, financial, and other applicable laws and regulations. Some of these regulations may be complicated or unsettled. Any failure to comply with governmental regulation could result in fines, penalties, or other governmental action, including criminal action, and may damage our brand and reputation. In addition, changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and enforcement policies, may from time to time require modifications to our offerings or the payment of fines and penalties, or both. In the United States, Canada, and United Kingdom, we are not a regulated telecommunications business. Our services are also in use in countries outside of the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom where we have regular operations, including countries where providing VoIP services is or may be illegal. We may need to change our service offerings to avoid regulation as a telecommunications business in a jurisdiction or if we are treated as a regulated telecommunications business, we may be required to incur additional expenses. In addition, if governments believe that we are providing unauthorized service in their countries, they may pursue fines, penalties, or other governmental action, including criminal action, that may damage our brand and reputation. If we use a local partner to provide services in a country and the local partner does not comply with applicable governmental regulations, we may face additional regulation, liabilities, penalties or other governmental action, and our brand and reputation may be harmed.In addition to the risk of being directly subjected to regulation, decisions by foreign regulators to increase the charge for terminating international calls into their countries may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain international long distance customers in the U.S., U.K., and Canada. For example, our Vonage World offering includes calling to over 60 countries. Regulatory actions in any of these countries could cause increased costs, impact margin, cause us to remove a country from Vonage World, and impact churn and gross line additions. These regulatory actions may be taken without notice and cause us to react quickly to changing market conditions. These efforts could divert management’s efforts and attention from ordinary business operations which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.As a United States-based company, any foreign subsidiary or joint venture that we use for international operations may be subject to a variety of governmental regulations in the countries where we market our products, including tariffs and taxes. For example, distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, received from our foreign subsidiaries may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by the jurisdiction in which such entities are formed or operating, which will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive. In general, as a United States corporation, we may claim a foreign tax credit against our federal income tax expense for such foreign withholding taxes and for foreign income taxes paid directly by foreign 9 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of Contentscorporate entities in which we own 10% or more of the voting stock. The ability to claim such foreign tax credits and to utilize net foreign losses is, however, subject to numerous limitations, and we may incur incremental tax costs as a result of these limitations or because we are not currently in a tax-paying position in the United States. We may also be required to include in our income for United States federal income tax purposes our proportionate share of certain earnings of those foreign subsidiaries that are classified as “controlled foreign corporations” without regard to whether distributions have been actually received from such subsidiaries. As we expand our international operations into new geographies, we will be increasingly subject to risks that are inherent in operating abroad, including country-specific market and competitive risks, currency restrictions and other restraints. International markets are competitive, and our international operations will be subject to risks in identifying and addressing international markets. In addition to facing global competitors, we may face local competitors with greater knowledge of local markets. Depending upon our method of entry into these markets, we may be subject to risks associated with infrastructure build out in foreign markets and attracting and retaining experienced key employees for any new foreign subsidiaries. We may also become more dependent on the economies of the markets in which we have operations. These markets are expected to be in countries with economies in various stages of development or structural reform, and our operations in such markets also could be affected by:>political, social and economic instability;>war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism;>taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation;>imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into United States dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;>hyperinflation; and>impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments.Our international operations involve transactions in a variety of currencies. Our financial results may be significantly affected by fluctuations of currency exchange rates. To the extent that foreign subsidiaries distribute dividends in local currencies in the future, the amount of cash to be received by us will be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, and such shifts in the currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on us. We do not maintain derivatives for managing foreign currency exchange rate risks.Our research and development personnel and facility are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. For example, increased violence or armed conflict in Israel or the Palestinian territories may disrupt travel and communications in the region, harming our operations there. Furthermore, some of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually and may be called to active duty in a time of crisis. The absence of these employees for significant periods may cause us to operate inefficiently during these periods.A number of our agreements are governed by the laws of, and subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, or through arbitration proceedings in, the country or region in which the operations are located. We cannot accurately predict whether such forum will provide us with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise in the future. Even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain or enforce relief in the United States is uncertain.We may face difficulties related to entry into joint ventures or the future acquisition or integration of additional businesses, which could harm our growth or operating results.As we execute on our growth initiatives, we may elect to enter into joint venture arrangements or acquire additional businesses or assets. These activities may require substantial management time and resources. We cannot predict or guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate any acquisition or joint venture arrangement. Future acquisitions may require us to issue equity securities, use our cash resources, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangibles, or write-off acquisition-related expenses. If we are unable to successfully integrate any acquired businesses or assets we may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisition. In addition, we cannot predict market reactions to any acquisitions we may make or to any failure to announce any future acquisitions. Further, while we conduct due diligence in connection with acquisition and joint venture opportunities, there may be liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. The discovery of material liabilities associated with acquisitions or joint venture opportunities could harm our operating results.Certain rights to third party patents and technology may expire and not be extended, or may not be available, which may decrease the quality of our products or services or subject us to liability.Certain previously disclosed patent rights licensed to the Company under our agreement with AT&T have expired. We may attempt to pursue extensions of such licenses. If we are unable to do so on terms acceptable to us, our making, using, and selling of certain of our existing and future products and services may be subject to claims of infringement under patents previously subject to these licenses if we do not make changes. In addition, we may seek to obtain rights to other third party technology in the future, but may not be able to agree upon commercially reasonable terms or at all with respect to obtaining such rights. If we are unable to extend existing licenses or are unable to obtain rights to other technology that may be commercially advantageous or necessary for our product and service offerings, we may experience a decrease in the quality of our products or services or we may lose the ability to provide our products and services on a non-infringing basis until alternative technology or suitable alternative products and services can be developed, identified, obtained (through acquisition, license or other grants of rights), and integrated. We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of our company.There has been substantial litigation in the VoIP, telecommunications and related industries regarding intellectual property rights and, given the rapid technological change in our industry and our continual development of new products and services, we and/or our commercial partners may be subject to infringement claims from time to time. For example, we may be unaware of filed patent applications and issued patents that could include claims that might be interpreted to cover our products and services. We were subject to patent infringement claims in the past, including suits that we settled in 2007 and 2008 for a total of $243,825 with Verizon, Sprint, AT&T, Nortel Networks, and others. We are also currently named as a defendant in two suits that relate to alleged patent infringement and from time to time we receive letters from third parties initiating an opportunity for us to obtain licenses to patents that may be relevant to our business or alleging that our services infringe upon third party patents or other intellectual property. See “Item 3. - Legal Proceedings-IP Matters.”10 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of ContentsParties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial royalties, licensing fees, damages or settlement fees. The defense of any lawsuit could divert management’s efforts and attention from ordinary business operations and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims. These outcomes may:>result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers;>cause us to accelerate expenditures to preserve existing revenues;>cause existing or new vendors to require prepayments or letters of credit;>cause our credit card processors to demand reserves or letters of credit or make holdbacks;>result in substantial employee layoffs;>materially and adversely affect our brand in the marketplace and cause a substantial loss of goodwill;>cause our stock price to decline significantly or otherwise cause us to fail to meet the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, which could distract management and result in the delisting of our common stock from the exchange;>materially and adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay debts and other obligations as they become due;>cause us to change our business methods or services; >require us to cease certain business operations or offering certain products and services; and>lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation.If we fail to protect our internally developed systems and software and our trademarks, we may become involved in costly litigation or our business or brand may be harmed.Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in large part upon the maintenance and protection of systems and software that we have developed internally based on open standards. While we own eighteen internally developed U.S. issued patents (and a number of foreign patents), have a number of pending patent applications, and have acquired third party patents, we cannot patent much of the technology that is important to our business. Our pending patent applications may not be granted. Any issued patent that we own may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented. To date, we have relied on patent, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. We typically enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and vendors in an effort to control access to and distribution of technology, software, documentation, and other information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use this technology without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of this technology is difficult. The steps we take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology we rely on. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in some jurisdictions outside the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. That litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business.The unlicensed use of our brand by third parties could harm our reputation, cause confusion among our customers, and impair our ability to market our services. To that end, we have registered numerous trademarks and service marks and have applied for registration of our trademarks and service marks in the United States and abroad to establish and protect our brand names as part of our intellectual property strategy. If our applications receive objections or are successfully opposed by third parties, it will be difficult for us to prevent third parties from using our brand without our permission. Moreover, successful opposition to our applications might encourage third parties to make additional oppositions or commence trademark infringement proceedings against us, which could be costly and time consuming to defend against. If we decide to take limited or no action to protect our trademarks, our trademark rights may be diluted and subject to challenge or invalidation, which could materially and adversely affect our brand in the marketplace.Security breaches and other cybersecurity or technological risks could compromise our information, systems and network and expose us to liability, including a failure to meet Payment Card Industry data security standards, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.There are several inherent risks to engaging in a technology business, including our reliance on our data centers and networks, and the use and interconnectivity of those networks. A significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, storage, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. As seen in our industry and others, these activities have been, and will continue to be, subject to continually evolving cybersecurity or other technological risks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to error, malfeasance or other disruptions by an employee or third-party provider. Any such breach could compromise our systems and network and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business. We have recently been subject to cyber incidents from external sources, including a “brute force” cyber incident, which resulted in unauthorized access to limited customer account data and interruptions of services to customers; and distributed denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt our ability to provide service to customers. Although these incidents did not have a material adverse effect financially or on our ability to provide services, this may not continue to be the case going forward. There can be no assurance that similar incidents, or other cyber incidents, will not occur in the future, potentially more frequently and/or on a more significant scale.We have taken steps designed to improve the security of our networks and computer systems. Despite these defensive measures, there can be no assurance that we are adequately protecting our information or that we will not experience future incidents. The expenses associated with protecting our information could reduce our operating margins. We maintain insurance intended to cover some of these risks, however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems. In addition, third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. We outsource certain functions, which results in the storage and processing of customer information by third parties. While we engage in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents could occur, resulting in similar costs and consequences as those discussed above. We make available on our website our privacy policy, which 11 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of Contentsdescribes how we collect, use, and disclose our customers' personal information. As we expand our international operations into new geographies, we may become subject to local data security, privacy, data retention, and disclosure laws and regulations. It may be difficult for us to comply with these laws and regulations if they were deemed to be applicable to us.We are subject to Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. PCI data security standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide, and VISA Inc., to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. Failure to comply with the security requirements as identified in subsequent audits or rectify a security issue may result in fines. While we believe it is unusual, restrictions on accepting payment cards, including a complete restriction, may be imposed on companies that are not compliant.We rely on third parties to provide a portion of our customer service representatives, provide aspects of our E-911 service, and initiate local number portability for our customers. If these third parties do not provide our customers with reliable, high-quality service, our reputation will be harmed and we may lose customers.We offer our customers support 24 hours a day, seven days a week through both our comprehensive online account management website and our toll free number. Our customer support is currently provided via United States based employees as well as third party partners located in the United States, Philippines, Costa Rica, Chile, Mexico, and India. We offer support in English, Spanish, and French Canadian. Our third-party providers generally represent us without identifying themselves as independent parties. The ability to support our customers may be disrupted by natural disasters, inclement weather conditions, civil unrest, and other adverse events in the locations where our customer support is provided.We also contract for services required to provide E-911 services including assistance in routing emergency calls, terminating E-911 calls, operating a national call center that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to receive certain emergency calls, and maintaining PSAP databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services. Interruptions in service from our vendor could cause failures in our customers’ access to E-911 services and expose us to liability and damage our reputation.We also have agreements with companies that initiate our local number portability, which allow new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services.If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services.Our ability to provide our telephony service and manage related customer accounts is dependent upon third-party facilities, equipment, and systems, the failure of which could cause delays of or interruptions to our service, damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, limit our growth, and affect our financial condition.Our success depends on our ability to provide quality and reliable telephony service, which is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Unlike traditional wireline telephone service or wireless service, our telephony service requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer's Internet service provider and electric utility company, respectively, and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our telephony services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer's broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our telephony service.We outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. For example, we outsource the maintenance of our regional data connection points, which are the facilities at which our network interconnects with the public switched telephone network. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. Interruptions in our service caused by third-party facilities have in the past caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers or cause us to offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting new customers, and our brand, reputation, and growth will be negatively impacted.In order to access our residential, small office, and home office services, a customer needs to connect a standard telephone to a broadband Internet connection through a Vonage-enabled device that we provide. Although we closely monitor inventory levels, if we are unable to procure a sufficient number of devices from our suppliers in a timely manner, including as a result of a failure by a component supplier, we would be delayed in activating new customers and may lose these customers.Flaws in our technology and systems or our failure to adapt our systems to any new Internet Protocol could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, and limit our growth.Although we have designed our service network to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our service may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems, such as malfunctions in our Vonage-enabled device that we provide to customers, software or facilities and overloading of our network. As we attract new subscribers, we expect increased call volume that we need to manage to avoid network interruptions. In particular, as we have marketed to different international long distance markets, we have seen international call volumes to targeted countries increase. During the next few years we expect wide-spread industry adoption of a new Internet Protocol, which is a set of standard communications and routing mechanisms. Customers may experience periodic delays of service caused by the industry transition to this new Internet Protocol. Interruptions have caused and may in the future cause us to lose customers and offer substantial customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Network interruptions have also impaired our ability at times to sign-up new customers and the ability of customers to manage their accounts. During 2012, we had outages that affected groups of customers at various times, some of which affected large groups of customers for several hours. If service interruptions or other outages adversely affect the perceived reliability of our telephony service or customer service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our brand reputation and growth may suffer.In addition, we utilize third-party Internet-based or “cloud” computing services in connection with some of our business operations. Any disruption to the internet or to our third-party Web hosting or cloud computing providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our customers and have adverse effects on our operations. In addition, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, and similar "Acts of God" could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. We do not maintain entirely redundant systems, thus such an event could result in downtime for our operations and could adversely affect our business.Our services are subject to regulation in the United 12 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of ContentsStates, United Kingdom, and Canada, and future legislative, regulatory or judicial actions could adversely affect our business and expose us to liability.Our business has developed in a relatively lightly regulated environment. However, the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada have applied some traditional telephone company regulations to VoIP and continue to evaluate how VoIP should be regulated. The effects of future regulatory developments are uncertain.In the United States, interconnected VoIP providers, such as Vonage, are subject to certain Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") rules. For example, on August 5, 2005, the FCC released an Order extending the obligations of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) to interconnected VoIP providers. Under CALEA, telecommunications carriers must assist law enforcement in executing electronic surveillance, which include the capability of providing call content and call-identifying information to a local enforcement agency, or LEA, pursuant to a court order or other lawful authorization. We could be subject to an enforcement action by the FCC if our CALEA solution is deemed not fully operational.Effective February 2, 2011, another FCC order reduced to one business day the amount of time that a telecommunications provider such as Vonage has to port a telephone number to another provider. If we, or third parties we rely upon for porting, have difficulty complying with the one-day porting requirement, we could be subject to FCC enforcement action.Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. If we become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers in individual states, we may incur significant litigation and compliance costs, and we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets, or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and similar laws, and any determination that we violated any of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act ("FCPA"), the UK Bribery Act and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by persons and entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties, and make sales internationally. In addition, we plan to expand our international operations through potential joint ventures with local partners. Our international activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, partners, sales agents or distributors, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to prohibit these practices by our employees, consultants, partners, sales agents or distributors However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, partners, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or other laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may incur significant costs and harm to our reputation from lawsuits and regulatory inquiries related to our business practices, which may also divert the attention of our management from other aspects of our business.We have been subject to periodic regulatory inquiries regarding our business practices, including an investigation settled in 2009 with a group of 32 states' attorneys general into certain of our business practices. There was no finding of any violation or wrongdoing by us, and the 32 states participating in the settlement have released us and our affiliates from the matters investigated. On July 18, 2011, we entered into an amended settlement agreement initiated at our request to reflect revised business practices associated with our new “consumable” product offerings. Any similar claims or regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, could require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves and could harm our reputation. We may need to spend significant amounts on our legal defense, senior management may be required to divert their attention from other portions of our business, new product launches may be deferred or canceled as a result of any proceedings, and we may be required to make changes to our present and planned products or services. If, as a result of any proceedings, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and harm our reputation.Third parties may fraudulently use our name to obtain access to customer accounts and other personal information, use our services to commit fraud or steal our services, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and cause us to incur additional expenses.Our customers have been subject to “phishing,” which occurs when a third party calls or sends an email or pop-up message to a customer that claims to be from a business or organization that provides services to the customer. The purpose of the inquiry is typically to encourage the customer to visit a bogus website designed to look like a website operated by the legitimate business or organization or provide information to the operator. At the bogus website, the operator attempts to trick the customer into divulging customer account or other personal information such as credit card information or to introduce viruses through “trojan horse” programs to the customers’ computers. This has resulted in identity theft from our customers and the unauthorized use of Vonage services. Third parties have also used our communications services to commit fraud. Although we have engaged a third party to assist in the shutdown of purported phishing sites, if we are unable to detect and prevent “phishing,” use of our services for fraud, and similar activities, our brand reputation and growth may suffer and we may incur additional costs, including costs to increase security, or be required to credit significant amounts to customers.Third parties also have used our communications services without paying, including by submitting fraudulent credit card information. This has resulted in our incurring the cost of providing the services, including incurring call termination fees, without any corresponding revenues. We have implemented anti-fraud procedures in order to limit the expenses resulting from theft of service, which were not material in 2012. If our procedures are not effective, theft of service could significantly increase our expenses and negatively impact our profitability.We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected.Many of the key responsibilities of our business have been assigned to a relatively small number of individuals. Our future success depends to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience, and effort of our senior management, especially Marc P. Lefar, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our continued growth depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced key employees.The success of our business relies on customers’ continued and unimpeded access to broadband service. Providers of broadband services may be 13 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of Contentsable to block our services or charge their customers more for also using our services, which could adversely affect our revenue and growth.Our customers must have broadband access to the Internet in order to use our service. Some providers of broadband access, including outside of the United States, may take measures that affect their customers’ ability to use our service, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving those packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely or attempting to charge their customers more for also using our services.In the United States, there continues to be some uncertainty regarding whether suppliers of broadband Internet access have a legal obligation to allow their customers to access and use our service without interference. In December 2010, the FCC adopted new net neutrality rules that would protect services like ours from such interference. Several parties have sought judicial review of the FCC's net neutrality rules. These appeals are currently pending. Interference with our service or higher charges for using our service could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. These problems could also arise in international markets. Most foreign countries have not adopted formal net neutrality rules like those adopted by the FCC.If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies.For certain users, aspects of our service are not the same as traditional telephone service. Our continued growth is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers, so these differences are important. For example:>Both our E-911 and emergency calling services are different, in significant respects, from the 911 service associated with traditional wireline and wireless telephone providers and, in certain cases, with other VoIP providers.>In the event of a power loss or Internet access interruption experienced by a customer, our service is interrupted. Unlike some of our competitors, we have not installed batteries at customer premises to provide emergency power for our customers’ equipment if they lose power, although we do have backup power systems for our network equipment and service platform.>Our customers may experience lower call quality than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies, including static, echoes, and delays in transmissions.>Our customers may experience higher dropped-call rates than they are used to from traditional wireline telephone companies.>Customers who obtain new phone numbers from us do not appear in the phone book and their phone numbers are not available through directory assistance services offered by traditional telephone companies.>Our customers cannot accept collect calls.>Our customers cannot call premium-rate telephone numbers such as 1-900 numbers and 976 numbers.If customers do not accept the differences between our service and traditional telephone service, they may choose to remain with their current telephone service provider or may choose to return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. Our emergency and E-911 calling services may expose us to significant liability.The FCC rules for the provision of 911 service by interconnected VoIP providers, such as the VoIP service we provide, require that for all geographic areas covered by the traditional wireline E-911 network, interconnected VoIP providers must provide E-911 service as defined by the FCC’s rules. Under the FCC’s rules, E-911 service means that interconnected VoIP providers must transmit the caller’s telephone number and registered location information to the appropriate PSAP for the caller’s registered location. Vonage provides E-911 service, under the FCC’s rules, to approximately 99.99% of its subscriber lines.The remaining subscriber lines do not have E-911 service for a variety of reasons including refusal by PSAPs to accept VoIP 911 calls, the inability of PSAPs to receive the registered location data from us, and the failure by third party companies with whom we contract to provide aspects of our E-911 service to obtain the necessary access or complete implementation of the necessary interfaces to the traditional wireline E-911 infrastructure. In addition, certain of our services designed to be highly mobile including soft phone service, which is software that enables a customer to make telephone calls from a computer, route callers to a national emergency call center that in turns routes the call to the appropriate PSAP.We could be subject to enforcement action by the FCC for our subscriber lines that do not have E-911 service. This enforcement action could result in significant monetary penalties and restrictions on our ability to offer non-compliant services.Delays our customers may encounter when making emergency services calls and any inability of a PSAP to automatically recognize the caller’s location or telephone number can have devastating consequences. Customers have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. In July 2008, the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008 became law and provided that interconnected VoIP providers have the same protections from liability for the operation of 911 service as traditional wireline and wireless providers. Limitations on liability for the provision of 911 service are normally governed by state law and these limitations typically are not absolute. Thus, for example, we could be subject to liability for a problem with our 911 service where our failures are greater than mere negligence. It is also unclear under the FCC’s rules whether the limitations on liability would apply to those subscriber lines where Vonage does not provide E-911 service.The debt agreements governing our financing contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.On February 11, 2013, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to our then existing credit facility (the "2013 Credit Facility"). The 2013 Credit Facility consists of a $70,000 senior secured term loan and a $75,000 revolving credit facility. The 2013 Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative covenants that limit our ability and/or the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants and other restrictions may under certain circumstances limit, but not necessarily preclude, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things:>consolidate or merge;>create liens;>incur additional indebtedness;>dispose of assets;>consummate acquisitions;>make investments; or14 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of Contents>pay dividends and other distributions.Under the 2013 Credit Facility, we are required to comply with the following financial covenants: specified maximum consolidated leverage ratio, specified minimum consolidated fixed coverage charge ratio, minimum cash position and maximum capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with such financial and other covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, so we may not be able to comply with these covenants. A breach of any such covenant could result in a default under the 2013 Credit Facility. In that case, the lenders could elect to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under the 2013 Credit Facility, including principal and accrued interest.The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.Securities markets experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Many factors that are beyond our control may significantly affect the market price of our shares. These factors include:>changes in our earnings or variations in operating results;>any shortfall in revenue or increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts;>judgments in litigation;>operating performance of companies comparable to us;>general economic trends and other external factors; and>market conditions and competitive pressures that prevent us from executing on our future growth initiatives.If any of these factors causes the price of our common stock to fall, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above their respective purchase prices, or we may face delisting from the New York Stock Exchange.If we require additional capital, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all.We may need to pursue additional financing to respond to new competitive pressures, pay extraordinary expenses such as litigation settlements or judgments or fund growth, including through acquisitions. Because of our past significant losses and our limited tangible assets, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets. In addition, the credit documentation for our recent financing contains affirmative and negative covenants that affect, and in many respects may significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur, refinance or modify indebtedness and create liens.Our credit card processors have the ability to impose significant holdbacks in certain circumstances. The reinstatement of such holdbacks likely would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.Under our credit card processing agreements with our Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover credit card processors, the credit card processor has the right, in certain circumstances, including adverse events affecting our business, to impose a holdback of our advanced payments purchased using a Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover credit card, as applicable, or demand additional reserves or other security. If circumstances were to occur that would allow any of these processors to reinstate a holdback, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. In addition, our Visa and MasterCard credit card processing agreement may be terminated by the credit card processor at its discretion if we are deemed to be financially insecure. As a significant portion of payments to us are made through Visa and MasterCard credit cards, if the credit card processor does not assist in transitioning our business to another credit card processor, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be significant. There were no cash reserves and cash-collateralized letters of credit with any credit card processors as of December 31, 2012. We have incurred cumulative losses since our inception and may not achieve consistent profitability in the future.While we achieved net income of $36,627 for the year ended December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit is $726,230 from our inception through December 31, 2012, which included the release of $325,601 of the valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets that we recorded as a one-time non-cash income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2011. Although we believe we will achieve consistent profitability in the future, we ultimately may not be successful. We believe that our ability to achieve consistent profitability will depend, among other factors, on our ability to continue to achieve and maintain substantive operational improvements and structural cost reductions while maintaining and growing our net revenues. In addition, certain of the costs of our business are not within our control and may increase. For example, we and other telecommunications providers are subject to regulatory termination charges imposed by regulatory authorities in countries to which customers make calls, such as India where regulatory authorities have been petitioned by local providers to consider termination rate increases. As we attract additional international long distance callers, we will be more affected by these increases to the extent that we are unable to offset such costs by passing through price increases to customers.We may be unable to fully realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards if an ownership change occurs.If we were to experience a “change in ownership” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”), the NOL carry forward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the change in ownership. If a change in ownership were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset future taxable income. In general, a change in ownership occurs when, as of any testing date, there has been a cumulative change in the stock ownership of the corporation held by 5% stockholders of more than 50 percentage points over an applicable three-year period. For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during an applicable three-year period has owned 5% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding common stock are grouped together as one or more “public group” 5% stockholders. Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly (though intervening entities), and constructively (by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group). We have implemented a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan intended to provide a meaningful deterrent effect against acquisitions that could cause a change in ownership, however this is not a guarantee against such a change in ownership.Jeffrey A. Citron, our founder, non-executive Chairman, and a significant stockholder, exerts significant influence over us.As of December 31, 2012, Mr. Citron beneficially owned approximately 20.6% of our outstanding common stock, including outstanding securities exercisable for common stock within 60 days of such date. As a result, Mr. Citron is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including 15 VONAGE ANNUAL REPORT 2012Table of Contentselection and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our non-executive Chairman, Mr. Citron has and will continue to have influence over our strategy and other matters as a board member. Mr. Citron’s interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the terms of certain settlement agreements to which we are a party contain provisions that could delay or discourage a takeover attempt, which could prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares.Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws may make it more difficult for, or have the effect of discouraging, a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions:>permit our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock and to establish the number of shares, series designation, voting powers (if any), preferences, other special rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of any series of preferred stock;>limit the ability of stockholders to amend our restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws, including supermajority requirements;>allow only our board of directors, Chairman of the board of directors or Chief Executive Officer to call special meetings of our stockholders;>eliminate the ability of stockholders to act by written consent; >require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations;>limit the removal of directors and the filling of director vacancies; and>establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms.In addition, a change of control would constitute an event of default under our 2013 Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare due and payable immediately all amounts due under our 2013 Credit Facility, including principal and accrued interest, and may take action to foreclose upon the collateral securing the indebtedness.Under our 2013 Credit Facility, a “change of control” would result from the occurrence of, among other things, the acquisition by any person or group (other than Mr. Citron and his majority-controlled affiliates) of 35% or more of the voting and/or economic interest of our outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis. The definition of “change of control” in the 2013 Credit Facility remains the same as under the credit facility that we entered into in July 2011, a copy of which has been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to a Form 8-K filed by us on July 29, 2011.Further, we were named as a defendant in several suits that related to patent infringement and entered into agreements to settle certain of the suits in 2007. Certain terms of those agreements, including licenses and covenants not to sue, will be restricted upon a change of control, which may discourage certain potential purchasers from acquiring us.Such provisions could have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. Any delay or prevention of, or significant payments required to be made upon, a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable. 