Item 1A. Risk Factors. If we are unable to close the acquisition of the ambulatory surgery center and surgical hospital businesses of Foundation Healthcare Affiliates or raise additional debt or equity financing we may be unable to continue operations and could be forced to substantially curtail operations or cease operations all together. On March 29, 2013, we executed a definitive agreement to acquire Foundation Surgery Affiliates, LLC and Foundation Surgical Hospital Affiliates, LLC from Foundation Healthcare, LLC. The ultimate consummation of such transaction is subject to a number of closing conditions and the receipt of third party consents, including from Arvest Bank, our secured lender, as well as secured lenders to and preferred members of certain subsidiaries of Foundation. As of December 31, 2012, we had cash of approximately $0.3 million and for the year then ended, we used $4.2 million of cash flow in operating activities from continuing operations. In November 2012, we executed a subscription agreement with Graymark Investments, LLC (doing business as Oklahoma Health Partners (“OHP”)) in which OHP agreed to purchase 1,444,445 shares of our common stock for $650,000 ($0.45 per share). The proceeds from OHP were used to fund our operations. Including the stock proceeds from OHP, we expect to have enough cash to fund operations into April 2013, but not thereafter. In order to fund our operations, we have taken, and will continue to take, measures to allow us to extend our ability to operate, including increasing the time for payment of our accounts payable and reducing headcount and other operating costs. Due to delays in payments of our accounts payable, certain of our vendors have, from time to time, delayed services or shipment of products to us until payment of owed amounts. If we continue to meaningfully delay payment of our accounts payable, our business may be materially adversely affected by our vendors refusal to provide services or product to us. If we are unable to consummate the Foundation acquisition in a timely manner or raise additional funds, we may be forced to substantially scale back operations or entirely cease operations and discontinue our business. We have a bank credit facility of approximately $16.7 million and we will not achieve compliance with the Debt Service Coverage Ratio requirements which begin March 31, 2013. We are party to an amended Loan Agreement with Arvest Bank (the “Arvest Credit Facility”). The Arvest Credit Facility provides for a term loan in the principal amount of $30 million (referred to as the “Term Loan”) and provides an additional credit facility in the principal amount of $15 million (the “Acquisition Line”) for total principal of $45 million. As of December 31, 2012, the outstanding principal amount of the Arvest Credit Facility was $16,735,555. In connection with our sale of the assets of ApothecaryRx to Walgreens, we reduced the outstanding balance on the Arvest Credit Facility by $22 million during 2010. We made additional principal payments of $2.1 million and $3.4 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Commencing with the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2013 and thereafter during the term of the Arvest Credit Facility, based on the latest four rolling quarters, we agreed to continuously maintain a “Debt Service Coverage Ratio” of not less than 1.25 to 1. As of December 31, 2012, our Debt Service Coverage Ratio is less than 1.25 to 1. The Debt Service Coverage Ratio is calculated using the latest four rolling quarters. We are currently developing and executing a combination of strategic, operational and debt reduction strategies aimed at achieving compliance with the Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant, but we do not expect that we will achieve compliance with the Debt Service Coverage Ratio during 2013 and there is no assurance that Arvest Bank will waive or further delay the requirement. 13 Table of Contents In the event we receive a notice of default from Arvest Bank and the default is not cured within 10 days following notice of the default by Arvest Bank, Arvest Bank will have the right to declare the outstanding principal and accrued and unpaid interest immediately due and payable. Payment and performance of our obligations under the Arvest Credit Facility are secured by the personal guaranties of certain of our current and former executive officers and one of our greater than 10% stockholders and in general our assets. In addition, in connection with a third amendment to the Arvest Credit Facility in July 2010, we also entered into a Deposit Control Agreement with Arvest Bank covering our accounts at Valliance Bank. Arvest Bank may exercise its rights to give instructions to Valliance Bank under the Deposit Control Agreement only in the event of an uncured default under the Loan Agreement, as amended. If Arvest Bank accelerates the payment of outstanding principal and interest, we will need to file a current report on Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing the event of default and the acceleration of payment of all principal and interest. In addition, we do not expect to be able to pay all outstanding principal and interest if Arvest Bank accelerates the due dates for such amounts. Since we have granted Arvest Bank a security interest in all of our assets, Arvest Bank could elect to foreclose on such assets as well as to move to enforce the guaranty which is provided by certain of our current and former executive officers and one of our greater than 10% stockholders. If Arvest Bank declares an event of default and/or accelerates the payment of our obligations under the Arvest Credit Facility, then the disclosure of such fact may cause a material decrease in the price of our stock. The declaration of an event of default and the move to foreclose on our assets may cause a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course of business as well as a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial position. We require a significant amount of cash flow from operations and third-party financing to pay our indebtedness, to execute our business plan and to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us under existing loan facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness, to execute our business plan or to fund our other liquidity needs. We anticipate the need for substantial cash flow to fund future acquisitions, which is our primary growth strategy. In addition, we may need to refinance some or all of our current indebtedness at or before maturity. We incurred indebtedness with an outstanding balance at December 31, 2012 of approximately $16.7 million to fund the acquisitions of our existing sleep centers. The outstanding principal amounts under the Arvest Bank credit facility and the term loan bear interest at the greater of the Wall Street Journal prime rate or 6%. Further details about this indebtedness can be found in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” At December 31, 2012, we had total liabilities of approximately $24.2 million. Because of our history of incurring significant losses, there is no assurance that our operating results will provide sufficient funding to pay our liabilities on a timely basis. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our current indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to generate or raise sufficient funds may require us to modify, delay or abandon some of our future business growth strategies or expenditure plans. 14 Table of Contents We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have financed our operations through revenues from operations, as well as the issuance of debt and equity securities and have incurred losses in the past two years. Net losses were $22.4 million in 2012 and $5.9 million in 2011. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $57.6 million. While we have instituted a strategy for re-engineering our operations to reduce costs, generate additional revenues, and generate operating cash flow, we continue to incur losses and do not yet generate cash flows from operations. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our business re-engineering plan, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. If we continue to incur losses, we may be unable to continue to operate our business and may need to cease operations entirely. In January 2013, we closed four of our stand-alone facilities. In addition, in January and February 2013, we were notified of the non-renewal or cancellation of ten hospital contracts. If we decide to close more locations or have more hospital contracts cancelled or not renewed, we may suffer additional losses or be forced to reduce our operations. On January 7, 2013, we implemented a plan to close four of our sleep diagnostic and therapy facilities. The facilities are located in Oklahoma and Texas and are being closed because the revenue from these facilities has not met expectations and is not adequate to offset the fixed operating costs of these locations. Two of the facilities were operated through January 11, 2013 and the third facility was operated through January 31, 2013. We recorded restructuring charges in connection with the closure of these facilities with respect to the remaining lease obligations for the facilities, severance payments to affected employees and other write-downs. The remaining lease obligations, severance payments and other write-downs were approximately $1.2 million, $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. All cash payments related to the severance costs are expected to be paid during the first quarter of 2013. The cash payments for the remaining lease obligations will continue for the life of the respective leases which extend through January 2018. During January and February 2013, we were notified of non-renewal or cancellation of 10 hospital contracts. The facilities cancelled or not renewed include: Coryell, Wise, Carrus, Hillcrest, Medical Center of McKinney, Goodall-Witcher, Carroll County, Harrison County, Stewart County and Saunders County. The end dates of these contracts range from January 1, 2013 to March 22, 2013. Since hospital contracts generally have limited fixed costs, the operating profit and cash flows from these facilities help to support our corporate overhead. If we decide to close more locations or have more hospital contracts cancelled or not renewed, we may suffer additional losses, require more cash to continue operations and be forced to reduce our operations further. The markets for sleep diagnostic services and sale of related products are highly competitive, and we compete against substantially larger healthcare providers, including hospitals and clinics. Competition among companies that provide healthcare services and supplies is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or future competitors, we may be prevented from retaining our existing customers or from attracting new customers, which could materially impair our business. There are a number of companies that currently offer or are in the process of offering services and supplies that compete with our sleep diagnostic and care management services and related product and supplies sales. These competitors may succeed in providing services and products that are more effective, less expensive or both, than those we currently offer or that would render some of our services or supplies obsolete or non-competitive. Some of our competitors may submit lower bids in a competitive bidding process or may be able to accept lower reimbursement rates from third party payors, thus gaining market share in our target markets. Many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we have and may be in a better position than us to withstand the adverse effects on gross margins and profitability caused by price decreases prevalent in this competitive environment. 15 Table of Contents If third party payors determine that we violate Medicare, Medicaid or other payor reimbursement laws, regulations, or requirements, our revenues may decrease, we may have to restructure our method of billing and collecting Medicare, Medicaid or other payor program payments, respectively, and we could incur substantial defense costs and be subject to fines, monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Our operations, including our billing and other arrangements with healthcare providers, are subject to extensive federal and state government regulation and requirements of other third-party payors. Such regulations and requirements include numerous laws directed at payment for services, conduct of operations, preventing fraud and abuse, laws prohibiting general business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine, controlling physicians’ medical decisions or engaging in some practices such as splitting fees with physicians, laws regulating billing and collection of reimbursement from government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and requirements of other payors. Those laws and requirements may have related rules and regulations that are subject to alternative interpretations and may not provide definitive guidance as to their application to our operations, including our arrangements with hospitals, physicians and professional corporations. We verify patient benefit eligibility prior to providing services or products. We submit claims for service and products after they have been provided. Claims are supported by required documentation including physician orders. Despite our measures to ensure compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, or other payor billing standards, such third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not reimbursable, that the service was not medically necessary, that there was a lack of sufficient supporting documentation, or for other reasons. Incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information could result in nonpayment, recoupment or allegations of billing fraud. We are not aware of any inquiry, investigation or notice from any governmental entity or other payor indicating that we are in violation of any of the Medicare, Medicaid or other payor reimbursement laws, regulations, or requirements. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these laws, rules and regulations based upon what we believe are reasonable and defensible interpretations of these laws, rules and regulations. However, such laws and related regulations and regulatory guidance may be ambiguous or contradictory, and may be interpreted or applied by prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authorities in ways that we cannot predict. If federal or state government officials or other payors challenge our operations or arrangements with third parties that we have structured based upon our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations, the challenge could potentially disrupt our business operations and we may incur substantial defense costs, even if we successfully defend our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations. In addition, if the government or other payors successfully challenge our interpretation as to the applicability of these laws, rules and regulations as they relate to our operations and arrangements with third parties, we would potentially incur substantial cost restructuring our billing practice, as well as fines or penalties for non-compliance which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event regulatory action were to limit or prohibit us from carrying on our business as we presently conduct it or from expanding our operations to certain jurisdictions, we may need to make structural, operational and organizational modifications to our company and/or our contractual arrangements with third-party payors, physicians, or others. Our operating costs could increase significantly as a result. We could also lose contracts or our revenues could decrease under existing contracts. Any restructuring would also negatively impact our operations because our management’s time and attention would be diverted from running our business in the ordinary course. We are subject to complex rules and regulations that govern our licensing and certification, and the failure to comply with these rules can result in delays in, or loss of, reimbursement for our services or civil or criminal sanctions. There has been a trend developing to require facilities that provide sleep diagnostic testing and durable medical equipment to become accredited by an approved accreditation organization as well as additional credentialing for physicians diagnosing sleep disorders and the licensing of technical personnel to perform diagnostic testing procedures. As of March 1, 2013, 10 of our free standing sleep centers are accredited by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, or the AASM. In addition, we have one free standing sleep center that is accredited through The Joint Commission. We are actively pursuing accreditation for our remaining sleep centers. Also, Medicare requires that all Durable Medical Equipment (DME) suppliers be accredited. All of our sleep therapy facilities providing DME were granted accreditation by The Joint Commission or by the Accreditation Commission for Healthcare, or ACHC. During 2010, one of our DME suppliers, somniCare Overland Park, Kansas location, became the first sleep therapy company in America to be accredited by the AASM. 16 Table of Contents Physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and respiratory therapists who provide services as part of our operations are required to obtain and maintain certain professional licenses or certifications and are subject to state regulations regarding professional standards of conduct. Some states also require our free-standing diagnostic testing facilities and DME providers to be licensed by or registered with state authorities such as state departments of health. We believe that we are in compliance with the licensing and registration in applicable states. Some state laws require that companies dispensing DME and supplies within the state be licensed by the state board of pharmacy. We currently have a pharmacy license for dispensing of durable medical equipment and supplies in applicable states. The relevant laws and regulations are complex and may be unclear or subject to interpretation. Currently we believe we are in compliance with all requisite regulatory authorities; however, agencies that administer these programs may find that we have failed to comply in some material respects. Failure to comply with these licensing, certification and accreditation laws, regulations and standards could result in our services being found non-reimbursable or prior payments being subject to recoupment, and can give rise to civil or, in extreme cases, criminal penalties. Government and private insurance plans may further reduce or discontinue healthcare reimbursements, which could result in reductions in our revenue and operating margins. A substantial portion of the cost of medical care in the United States is funded by managed care organizations, insurance companies, government funded programs, employers and other third-party payors, which are collectively referred to as “third-party plans.” These plans continue to seek cost containment. If this funding were to be reduced in terms of coverage or payment rates or were to become unavailable to our sleep disorder patients, our business will be adversely affected. Furthermore, managed care organizations and insurance companies are evaluating approaches to reduce costs by decreasing the frequency of treatment or the utilization of a medical device or product. These cost containment measures have caused the decision-making function with respect to purchasing to shift in many cases from the physician to the third-party plans or payors, resulting in an increased emphasis on reduced price, as opposed to clinical benefits or a particular product’s features. Efforts by U.S. governmental and private payors to contain costs will likely continue. Because we generally receive payment for our sleep diagnostic services and related products directly from these third-party plans, our business operations are dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate and timely reimbursement for our sleep diagnostic services and related products. The third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers. These payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a diagnostic test was not covered under the patient’s plan or performed properly or that a device is not covered under the patient’s plan, is not used in accordance with approved indications, or is unnecessary or deemed to be inappropriate treatment for the patient. For example, federal payors and commercial concerns that have adopted similar standards will only fully reimburse us for a CPAP device if the patient can demonstrate compliance for the first 90 days after the initial set-up. Third-party payors are also increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. There is no assurance that our sleep diagnostic services and the related products will be considered cost-effective by third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available, or that payors’ reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to offer and sell our services and products on a profitable basis, if at all. 17 Table of Contents Changes in reimbursement levels for sleep diagnostic services and related products continue to reduce our margins and could have a material, adverse effect on our overall operating results. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we were wholly or partially reimbursed by third-party plans, including Medicare and Medicaid, for approximately 61% and 67%, respectively of our revenue from sleep diagnostic services and product sales. The sleep diagnostic revenue reimbursed by third-party plans generally have lower gross margins compared to sales or services paid outside a third-party plan. Increases in the costs of our sleep related products may not be sufficiently offset by increases in reimbursement rates. In addition, continued increases in co-payments by third-party plans may result in decreases in sales and revenue, operating and cash flow losses, and may deplete working capital reserves. In particular, Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective reimbursement rate adjustments, administrative rulings, executive orders and freezes and funding restrictions, all of which may significantly impact our operations. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, 8% and 11%, respectively, of our sleep diagnostic revenues were attributable to Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement. Over the last several years, a number of states experiencing budget deficits have moved to reduce Medicaid reimbursement rates as part of healthcare cost containment. We depend on reimbursements by third-party payors, as well as payments by individuals, which could lead to delays and uncertainties in the reimbursement process. We receive a substantial portion of our payments for sleep center services and related supplies from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private insurers and managed care organizations. The reimbursement process for these third-party payors is complex and can involve lengthy delays. Third-party payors continue their efforts to control expenditures for healthcare, including proposals to revise reimbursement policies. While we recognize revenue when healthcare services are provided, there can be delays before we receive payment. In addition, third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not reimbursable under plan coverage, that services provided were not medically necessary, or that additional supporting documentation is necessary. Retroactive adjustments may change amounts realized from third-party payors. These risks may be exacerbated for patients for whom we are out-of-network. We are subject to governmental audits of our reimbursement claims under Medicare and Medicaid and may be required to repay these agencies if a finding is made that we were incorrectly reimbursed. Delays and uncertainties in the reimbursement process may adversely affect accounts receivable, increase the overall costs of collection and cause us to incur additional borrowing costs. We also may not be paid with respect to co-payments and deductibles that are the patient’s financial responsibility, or in those instances when our facilities provide services to uninsured and underinsured individuals. Amounts not covered by third-party payors are the obligations of individual patients for which we may not receive whole or partial payment. In such an event, our earnings and cash flow would be adversely affected. Healthcare reform has been enacted into law and could impact the profitability of our business. The Affordable Care Act, enacted in March 2010, is dramatically altering the U.S. health care system. The law is intended to increase access to health care and health insurance services, increase the quality of care that is provided, and control or reduce health care spending. In addition, health care reform reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals and other healthcare providers and bundle payments to hospitals, physicians, and other providers for certain services. We are unable to predict how changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on the costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement patients and customers receive both from government and third-party plans or payors. Federal, state and local government representatives will, in all likelihood, continue to review and assess alternative regulations and payment methodologies. 18 Table of Contents Healthcare reform and enforcement initiatives of federal and state governments may also affect our sales and revenue. These include: • Significant reductions in spending on Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs; • changes in programs providing for lower reimbursement rates for the cost healthcare products and services by third-party plans or payors; and • regulatory changes relating to the approval process for healthcare products and services in general. There is uncertainty regarding the nature of healthcare reform implementation and whether there will be other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system. Recently enacted or future healthcare or budget legislation or other changes, including those referenced above, may materially adversely affect our business resulting in operating and cash flow losses, depletion of working capital reserves and adversely affect our financial condition. We rely on primary suppliers of sleep related products to sell their products to us on satisfactory terms, and a disruption in our relationship with these suppliers could have a material, adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on merchandise vendors to provide sleep disorder related products for our resale. Our largest sleep product suppliers are Fisher & Paykel Healthcare, which supplied approximately 32% and 38% of our sleep supplies in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and ResMed, Inc., which supplied approximately 35% and 32% of our sleep supplies in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In our opinion, if any of these relationships were terminated or if any contracting party were to experience events precluding fulfillment of our needs, we would be able to find a suitable alternative supplier, but possibly not without significant disruption to our business. This could take a significant amount of time and result in a loss of customers and revenue, operating and cash flow losses and may deplete working capital reserves. We could be subject to professional liability lawsuits, some of which we may not be fully insured against or reserved for, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories such as negligent hiring, supervision and credentialing, and vicarious liability for acts of their employees or independent contractors. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. We maintain professional liability insurance, which covers third-party claims that may be brought against the physicians and staff that work at our sleep centers, up to a maximum of $3 million, which amount may be insufficient to satisfy all third-party claims that may be brought against our healthcare professionals. We are dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain physicians who are properly licensed and certified in the specialty of sleep medicine to oversee our sleep centers and provide medical services to our patients. Our success depends largely upon our ability to recruit and retain physicians who are licensed to practice medicine in the jurisdictions relevant to the sleep diagnostic testing centers. We currently have medical directors who oversee each of our sleep centers, provide sleep study interpretations and consultations to our patients. The loss of one or more medical directors could result in a time-consuming search for a replacement, and could distract our management team from the day-to-day operations of our business. Any change in our relationship with our supervising or interpreting physicians, whether resulting from a dispute between the parties, a change in government regulation, or the loss of contracts with these physicians, could impair our ability to provide services and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operations. In many markets our success is highly dependent upon the continuing ability to recruit and retain qualified sleep specialists to supervise sleep diagnostic testing services and interpret results of such tests for us due to the current shortage of sleep specialists in the medical profession. We face competition for sleep specialists from other healthcare providers, including hospitals and other organizations. The competitive demand for sleep specialists may require us in the future to offer higher compensation in order to secure the services of sleep specialists. As a result, our compensation expense for our affiliated sleep specialists may increase and if we were not able to offset any such increase by increasing our prices, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. An inability to recruit and retain sleep specialists would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain accreditation status and would adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The loss of our accreditation or our inability to obtain accreditation could negatively impact our business and operating results. There has been a trend developing to require facilities that provide sleep diagnostic testing and equipment to become accredited by a Medicare approved accreditation organization in order to obtain reimbursement for provided such services. It is anticipated that many other government and private payors will follow suit requiring accreditation by certain approved organizations as a condition to reimbursement for sleep testing and treatment services or products. The loss of our accreditation or our inability to obtain accreditation for new facilities or existing facilities not yet accredited could cause us to be unable to provide services to certain accredited institutions, could cause non-compliance with certain of our third party payor contracts, and could cause us to lose our ability to participate in certain government programs such as Medicare, all of which could, in turn, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If our arrangements with physicians or our patients are found to violate state laws prohibiting the practice of medicine by general business corporations or fee splitting, our business, financial condition and ability to operate in those states could be adversely affected. The laws of many states, including states in which we engage physicians to perform medical services, prohibit us from exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians and from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as splitting professional fees with physicians. These laws and their interpretations vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. In states which do not allow us to exercise control over physicians or prohibit certain financial arrangements, we enter into agreements with physicians as independent contractors pursuant to which they render professional medical services. In addition, in some states, we enter into agreements with physicians to deliver professional sleep interpretation services and professional clinic services in exchange for a service fee. We structure our relationships with physicians in a manner that we believe is in compliance with prohibitions against the corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting. While we have not received notification from any state regulatory or similar authorities asserting that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that the payment of service fees to us by physicians or to physicians by us constitutes fee splitting, if such a claim were successful we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties and could be required to restructure or terminate the applicable contractual arrangements and our contractual arrangements may be unenforceable in that particular state. A determination that our arrangements with physicians violate state statutes, a change in government regulation, or our inability to successfully restructure these arrangements to comply with these statutes, could eliminate business located in certain states from the market for our services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Our failure to comply with government regulations, including broad and complex federal and state fraud and abuse laws, may result in substantial reimbursement obligations, damages, penalties, injunctive relief or exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. Our sleep diagnostic, therapy, and supply operations are subject to a variety of complex federal, state and local government laws and regulations targeted at fraud and abuse, including: • The federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind: (i) for referring an individual to a person for the provision of an item or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; or (ii) to induce a person to refer an individual to a person for the provision of an item or service covered under a federal healthcare program, or arrange for or recommend that someone purchase, lease, or order a good, facility, service, or item covered under a federal healthcare program; 20 Table of Contents • State law equivalents to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items; • The federal False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement in order to have a false claim paid. The federal government’s interpretation of the scope of the law has in recent years grown increasingly broad. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor; • The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits fraud on a health benefit plan and false statements. HIPAA created a federal healthcare fraud statute that prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. Among other things, HIPAA also imposes criminal penalties for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services, along with theft or embezzlement in connection with a healthcare benefits program and willful obstruction of a criminal investigation involving a federal healthcare offense; • The Stark Law prohibits the referral of Medicare and Medicaid “designated health services” which includes outpatient prescription drugs and durable medical equipment such as CPAP devices and may also include sleep diagnostic testing if the testing is billed by a hospital to Medicare or Medicaid to an entity if the physician or a member of such physician’s immediate family has a “financial relationship” with the entity, unless an exception applies. The Stark Law provides that the entity that renders the “designated health services” may not present or cause to be presented a claim for “designated health services” furnished pursuant to a prohibited referral. A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law’s prohibitions may be fined up to $100,000 for each applicable arrangement or scheme. In addition, anyone who presents or causes to be presented a claim in violation of the Stark Law is subject to payment denials, mandatory refunds, monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per service, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed, and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs; and • Many state laws prohibit physician referrals to entities with which the physician has a financial interest, or require that the physician provide the patient notice of the physician’s financial relationship before making the referral. State law equivalents to the Stark law may be applicable to different types of services than those that are “designated health services” under the federal law and may have fewer or different exceptions. In addition to those sanctions described above, violations of these or other government regulations could result in material penalties, including: civil monetary penalties, suspension of payments from government programs, loss of required government certifications, loss of licenses, loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs (including Medicare and Medicaid programs). Also, violations of federal, state, and common law privacy protections could give rise to significant damages, penalties, or injunctive relief. We believe that our practices are not in violation of the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, HIPAA, the Stark law, or state equivalents, but we cannot assure you that enforcement authorities will not take action against us and, if such action were successful, we could be required to pay significant fines and penalties and change our corporate practices. Such enforcement could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and to enforce our contracts with payors and others. 21 Table of Contents Non-compliance with federal and state anti-kickback laws could affect our business, operations or financial condition. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among healthcare providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Similarly, many state laws prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. There is a risk that an investment in our shares or in our subsidiary sleep centers by our affiliated physicians, including the distribution of any profits to our affiliated physicians, referrals for sleep testing or treatment services by physicians who own our securities, the marketing of our affiliated physicians’ services or our compensation arrangements with our affiliated physicians may be considered a violation of these laws. Violation of these anti-kickback laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities and/or exclusion from participating in federal or state healthcare programs. If we are excluded from federal or state healthcare programs, our affiliated physicians who participate in those programs would not be permitted to continue doing business with us. We believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable laws and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. We have physicians who own non-controlling investment interests in some of our sleep diagnostic testing facilities who also have a referral relationship with our sleep testing or care management services. If the ownership distributions paid to physicians by our testing facilities are found to constitute prohibited payments made to physicians under the federal Anti-kickback Statute, physician self-referral or other fraud and abuse laws, our business may be adversely affected. Over the years, the federal government has published regulations that established “safe harbors” to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. An arrangement that meets all of the elements of the safe harbor is immunized from prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure to satisfy all elements, however, does not necessarily mean the arrangement violates the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. We endeavor to meet safe harbors designed for small entity investments and believe we are in compliance with such laws. However, if we were found to be violation of a federal or state anti-kickback statute, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be harmed and we would be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. If government laws or regulations change or the enforcement or interpretation of them change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians associated with us. Changes in government regulation or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations could obligate us to purchase at the then fair market value some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians who have invested in our sleep diagnostic facilities. Regulatory changes that could create this obligation include changes that: • make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our sleep diagnostic facilities by physicians affiliated with us, • create the substantial likelihood that cash distributions from our sleep diagnostic facilities to our physician partners will be illegal, or • make illegal the ownership by physicians of their interests in our sleep diagnostic facilities. From time to time, we may voluntarily seek to increase our ownership interest in one or more of our sleep diagnostic testing facilities, in accordance with any applicable limitations. We may seek to use shares of our common stock to purchase physicians’ ownership interests instead of cash. If the use of our stock is not permitted or attractive to us or the physicians, we may use cash or promissory notes to purchase the physicians’ ownership interests. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient for the acquisition or the use of cash may limit our ability to use our capital resources elsewhere, limiting our growth and impairing our operations. The creation of these obligations and the possible adverse effect on our affiliation with these physicians could have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Table of Contents Federal or state self-referral regulations could impact our arrangements with our affiliated physicians. The federal physician self-referral statute, known as the “Stark” statute, prohibits a physician from making a referral for certain designated health services, including DME such as CPAP devices, to any entity with which the physician has a financial relationship, unless there is an exception in the statute that allows the referral. The entity that receives a prohibited referral from a physician may not submit a bill to Medicare for that service. Many state laws prohibit physician referrals to entities in which the physician has a financial interest, or require that the physician provide the patient notice of the physician’s financial relationship before making the referral. There is a risk that an investment in our shares or in our subsidiary sleep centers by our affiliated physicians, including the distribution of any profits to our affiliated physicians, the use of our equipment by physicians who own our securities, any assistance from healthcare providers in acquiring, maintaining or operating sleep diagnostic testing equipment, the marketing of our affiliated physicians’ services or our compensation arrangements with our affiliated physicians, could be interpreted as a violation of the federal Stark statute or similar state laws, if we were to accept referrals from our affiliated physicians. Violation of the Stark statute can result in substantial civil penalties for both the referring physician and any entity that submits a claim for a healthcare service made pursuant to a prohibited referral. In addition, federal courts have ruled that violations of the Stark statute can be the basis for a legal claim under the Federal False Claims Act. We believe that all of our affiliated physician arrangements are in compliance with the Stark statute. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. Because we submit claims to the Medicare program based on the services we provide, it is possible that a lawsuit could be brought against us under the Federal False Claims Act, and the outcome of any such lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The federal False Claims Act provides, in part, that the federal government may bring a lawsuit against any person whom it believes has knowingly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or who has made a false statement or used a false record to have a claim approved. Federal courts have ruled that a violation of the anti-kickback provision of the Stark statute can serve as the basis for the federal False Claims Act suit. The federal False Claims Act further provides that a lawsuit brought under that act may be initiated in the name of the United States by an individual who was the original source of the allegations, known as the relator. Actions brought under the federal False Claims Act are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the federal government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that lawsuits have been filed against us that we are unaware of or which we have been ordered by the court not to discuss until the court lifts the seal from the case. Penalties include fines ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim, plus three times the amount of damages that the federal government sustained because of the act of the violator. We believe that we are operating in compliance with the Medicare rules and regulations and, thus, the federal False Claims Act. However, if we were found to have violated certain rules and regulations and, as a result, submitted or caused our affiliated physicians to submit allegedly false claims, any sanctions imposed under the federal False Claims Act could result in substantial fines and penalties or exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we are excluded from participation in federal or state healthcare programs, our affiliated physicians who participate in those programs could not do business with us. Federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern our activities and the activities of providers of sleep diagnostic testing and durable medical equipment. These increased enforcement activities may have a direct or indirect adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some state statutes contain prohibitions similar to and possibly even more restrictive than the federal False Claims Act. These state laws may also empower state administrators to adopt regulations restricting financial relationships or payment arrangements involving healthcare providers under which a person benefits financially by referring a patient to another person. We believe that we are operating in compliance with these laws. However, if we are found to have violated such laws, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. 23 Table of Contents Future changes in healthcare regulation are difficult to predict and may constrain or require us to restructure our operations, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and subject to frequent changes in governing laws and regulations as well as to evolving administrative interpretations. Our business could be adversely affected by regulatory changes at the federal or state level that impose new requirements for licensing, new restrictions on reimbursement for medical services by government programs, new pretreatment certification requirements for patients seeking sleep testing procedures or treatment products, or new limitations on services that can be performed by us. In addition, federal, state and local legislative bodies have adopted and continue to consider medical cost-containment legislation and regulations that have restricted or may restrict reimbursement to entities providing services in the healthcare industry and referrals by physicians to entities in which the physicians have a direct or indirect financial interest or other relationship. For example, Medicare recently adopted a regulation that limits the technical component of the reimbursement for multiple diagnostic tests performed during a single session at medical facilities other than hospitals. Any of these or future reimbursement regulations or policies could limit the number of diagnostic tests ordered and could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, recently finalized certain anti-markup rules relating to diagnostic tests paid for by the Medicare program. The anti-markup rules are generally applicable where a physician or other supplier bills for the technical component or professional component of a diagnostic test that was ordered by the physician or other supplier (or ordered by a party related to such physician or other supplier through common ownership or control), and the diagnostic test is performed by a physician who does not share a practice with the billing physician or other supplier. If the anti-markup rule applies to an interpretation, then the reimbursement provided by Medicare to a billing physician or other supplier for that interpretation may be limited. Because our sleep diagnostic testing facilities bill Medicare for the technical and professional fees of sleep diagnostic tests that are ordered by community physicians or our affiliated physicians, we believe that the anti-markup rule does not apply to the professional services our affiliated physicians perform or the technical services that our sleep diagnostic testing facilities perform. However, this rule could be subject to an interpretation that affects the amounts that may be reimbursed by Medicare for professional diagnostic interpretations. Although we monitor legal and regulatory developments and modify our operations from time to time as the regulatory environment changes, we may not be able to adapt our operations to address every new regulation, and such regulations may adversely affect our business. In addition, although we believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable federal and state laws, our business operations have not been scrutinized or assessed by judicial or regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities would not result in a determination that adversely affects our operations or that the healthcare regulatory environment will not change in a way that will restrict our operations. Non-compliance with state and federal regulations concerning health information practices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operations, and the cost of compliance may be material. We collect and use information about individuals and their medical conditions. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and the Health Information Technology For Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”), govern the collection, dissemination, security, use and confidentiality of such patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA sets forth standards for electronic transactions between health plans, providers and clearinghouses; unique provider, employer, health plan and patient identifiers; security and electronic signatures as well as privacy protections relating to the exchange of individually identifiable health information. The Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) has released several rules mandating compliance with the standards set forth under HIPAA. We believe our sleep centers and sleep related products and services achieved compliance with DHHS’s standards governing the privacy of individually identifiable health information and DHHS’s standards governing the security of electronically stored health information. In addition, we have fully implemented the required uniform standards governing common healthcare transactions. Finally, we have taken or will take all necessary steps to achieve compliance with other HIPAA rules as applicable, including the standard unique employer identifier rule, the standard health care provider identifier rule and the enforcement rule. While it is believed that we currently comply with HIPAA, there is some uncertainty of the extent to which the enforcement or interpretation of the HIPAA regulations will affect our business. Continuing compliance and the associated costs with these regulations may have a significant impact on our business operations. Criminal and civil sanctions may be imposed for failing to comply with HIPAA. 24 Table of Contents In addition to the HIPAA restrictions relating to the exchange of healthcare information, individual states have adopted laws protecting the confidentiality of patient information which impact the manner in which patient records are maintained. Violation of patient confidentiality rights under common law, state or federal law could give rise to damages, penalties, civil or criminal fines and/or injunctive relief. We believe that our sleep center operations are in compliance with federal and state privacy protections. However, an enforcement agency or court may find a violation of state or federal privacy protections arising from our sleep center operations. The failure to comply with other provisions of HIPAA potentially could result in liability, civil and criminal penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. HIPAA authorizes the imposition of civil money penalties against entities that employ or enter into contracts with individuals or entities that have been excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. We perform background checks on our affiliated physicians, and we do not believe that we engage or contract with any excluded individuals or entities. However, a finding that we have violated this provision of HIPAA could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. HIPAA also establishes several separate criminal penalties for making false or fraudulent claims to insurance companies and other non-governmental payors of healthcare services. These provisions are intended to punish some of the same conduct in the submission of claims to private payors as the federal False Claims Act covers in connection with governmental health programs. We believe that our services have not historically been provided in a way that would place either our clients or ourselves at risk of violating the HIPAA anti-fraud statutes, including those in which we received direct reimbursement because of the reassignment by affiliated physicians to us or those in which we may be considered to receive an indirect reimbursement because of the reassignment by us to hospitals of the right to collect for professional interpretations and technical services. We believe that our sleep centers have taken all appropriate steps to achieve compliance with the HIPAA requirements. We do not currently believe that the ongoing cost of compliance with the existing HIPAA requirements will be material to our operations; however, we cannot predict the cost of future compliance with HIPAA requirements. Our failure to successfully implement our growth plan may adversely affect our financial performance. We have grown primarily through acquisitions. We intend to continue to grow incrementally through acquisitions with our current focus on acquiring the surgical center and surgical hospital business of Foundation and our historical growth strategy in the sleep disorder market through our comprehensive sleep management care model. As this growth plan is pursued, we may encounter difficulties expanding and improving our operating and financial systems to maintain pace with the increased complexity of the expanded operations and management responsibilities. The success of our growth strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, including: • economic conditions; • competition; • consumer preferences and purchasing power; • the ability to attract and retain sleep technicians and physicians; • financing and working capital requirements; • the ability to negotiate sleep center leases on favorable terms; and • the availability of new locations at a reasonable cost. 25 Table of Contents Even if we succeed in acquiring the surgical center and surgical hospital businesses of Foundation as planned, those acquired facilities may not achieve the projected revenue or profitability levels that we estimate or at all. The failure of our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Material weaknesses in the design and operation of the internal controls over financial reporting of companies that we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Our business has primarily grown through the acquisition of existing businesses and in the future we intend to continue to grow our business through the acquisition of existing businesses. When we acquire such existing businesses our due diligence may fail to discover defects or deficiencies in the design and operations of the internal controls over financial reporting of such companies, or defects or deficiencies in the internal controls over financial reporting may arise when we try to integrate the operations of these newly acquired businesses with our own. We can provide no assurances that we will not experience such issues in future acquisitions, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. The goodwill and other intangible assets acquired pursuant to our acquisitions of sleep centers has become fully-impaired. Goodwill and other intangible assets related to future acquisitions may require additional write-downs and the recognition of additional substantial impairment expense. At December 31, 2012, we have fully-impaired $21.2 million and $2.1 million in goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively, that were recorded in connection with the acquisitions of our sleep centers during the years 2007 through 2011. We periodically evaluate whether or not to take an impairment charge on our goodwill, as required by the applicable accounting literature. Our evaluation is based on our (i) assessment of current and expected future economic conditions, (ii) trends, strategies and forecasted cash flows at each business unit and (iii) assumptions similar to those that market participants would make in valuing our business units. During the second and fourth quarters of 2012, we determined that the carrying value of goodwill related to our sleep centers exceeded their fair value. In addition, we determined the carrying value of our intangible assets exceeded their fair value. Accordingly, in June 2012 and December 2012, we recorded a noncash impairment charge on goodwill of $3.0 million and $10.7 million, respectively, for a total 2012 impairment charge on goodwill of $13.7 million. In addition, in December 2012, we recorded a noncash impairment charge on intangible assets of $1.1 million. Our evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets completed during 2011 did not identify any impairment. In the event that we record additional goodwill or other intangibles on future acquisitions and we subsequently determine the goodwill or other intangibles to be impaired for any reason, we will be required to write-down or reduce the value of the goodwill and recognize an impairment expense. The impairment expense may be substantial in amount and adversely affect the results of our operations for the applicable period and may negatively affect the market value of our common stock. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB, which may limit the liquidity and price of our common stock more than if our common stock quoted or listed on or a national securities exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCQB, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not listed on a national securities exchange. Quotation of our common stock on the OTCQB may limit the liquidity and price of our common stock more than if our common stock was quoted or listed on a national securities exchange. Some investors may perceive our common stock to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, as an OTCQB company, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on a national securities exchange. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, holders of our common stock may face restrictions on the resale of our common stock due to state “blue sky” laws. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Our securities are “Penny Stock” and subject to specific rules governing their sale to investors. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell shares of our common stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In the future, we may issue additional authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock are currently traded on the OTCQB. Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us and they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. Our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock together beneficially own approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock will have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • changes to the composition of our Board of Directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers; • proposed mergers, consolidations or other business combinations; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our shares of common stock. 27 Table of Contents This concentration of ownership of shares of our common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other purchases of shares of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The interests of our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, including securities of healthcare companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor perception of our business and our prospects; • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in healthcare laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or • general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of healthcare companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend solely on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our shares of common stock and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business and for general corporate purposes. In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our current credit facility with Arvest Bank restricts our ability to pay dividends, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Arvest Credit Facility.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 28 Table of Contents 