Item 1A. Risk Factors. If we are unable to refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt on more favorable payment terms or alternatively extend the maturity of our debt that matures in the next twelve months, we may be unable to continue operations and could be forced to substantially curtail operations or cease operations all together. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $35.2 million and a working capital deficiency of $15.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we generated a net loss attributable to Foundation Healthcare of $19.4 million, including a goodwill impairment charge of $21.9 million, and generated cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations of $3.0 million. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.2 million and in March 2014, we received $4.1 million as part of a lease transaction. We expect to refinance, by the end of the second quarter of 2014, a significant portion of our long-term debt obligations. We expect that we will be able to significantly reduce our annual debt service payments as part of the refinancing; however, there is no assurance that we will be successful in completing the debt refinancing. If we are unable to refinance a significant portion of our existing debt as noted above, we may be forced to obtain extensions on existing debt obligations as they become due in 2014. Although we have historically been successful in obtaining extensions, there is no assurance that our banks will continue to grant them in the future. If we do not complete the debt refinancing or alternatively obtain extensions on some of our debt obligations during 2014, we may not have sufficient cash on hand or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our cash requirements over the next 12 months. Alternatively, we may choose to raise additional equity capital or raise cash through other means such as asset sales, but there are no assurance that we will conduct such actions or be successful. These uncertainties raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary we are unable to continue as a going concern. Our acquisition of FSA and FSHA may increase our risk of additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have not performed an assessment of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal controls over financial reporting at FSA and FSHA; however, we have identified certain material weaknesses at FSA and FSHA related to the lack of sufficient internal review and approval of critical accounting schedules used in the preparation of financial statements and the lack of sufficient review and approval of the accounting impact and treatment of material contract and agreements (See Item 9A – Controls and Procedures for a discussion of the material 18 Table of Contents weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting that we have identified at FSA and FSHA). FSA and FSHA were not required to be included in our assessment of internal controls for 2013 but will be included in our assessment for 2014, which may increase our risk for additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We require a significant amount of cash flow from operations and third-party financing to pay our indebtedness, to execute our business plan and to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us under existing loan facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness, to execute our business plan or to fund our other liquidity needs. We anticipate the need for substantial cash flow to fund future acquisitions, which is our primary growth strategy. In addition, we intend to refinance some or all of our current indebtedness at or before maturity. At December 31, 2013, we have a short-term debt obligation with Arvest Bank of $4.0 million that matures on April 30, 2014 which is included in current liabilities from discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2013, we have short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt payable to Legacy Bank of $2.8 million and $5.0 million, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 2013, we have additional short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt owed to other financial institutions totaling $2.9 million and $2.9 million, respectively. Further details about this indebtedness can be found in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” At December 31, 2013, we had total liabilities of approximately $61.9 million. There is no assurance that our operating results will provide sufficient funding to pay our liabilities on a timely basis. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our current indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to generate or raise sufficient funds may require us to modify, delay or abandon some of our future business growth strategies or expenditure plans. We may continue to see the growth of uninsured and “patient due” accounts, and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. The primary collection risks associated with our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. The provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. This risk has increased, and will likely continue to increase, as more individuals enroll in high deductible insurance plans or those with high co-payments or who have no insurance coverage. These trends will likely be exacerbated if general economic conditions remain challenging or if unemployment levels in the communities in which we operate rise. As unemployment rates increase, our business strategies to generate organic growth and to improve admissions and adjusted admissions at our hospitals could become more difficult to accomplish. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessments of historical collection trends, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health coverage and other collection indicators. A continuation in trends that results in increasing the proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, results of operations and cash flows. As enacted, the ACA seeks to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals. Among other things, the ACA will, beginning in 2014, incentivize states to expand their Medicaid eligibility requirements and incentivize employers to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. However, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the ACA due to its complexity, lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, and possible amendment, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals, businesses and states will respond to the choices afforded them by the ACA. In addition, even after implementation of the ACA, we may continue to experience bad debts and be required to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government healthcare programs. 19 Table of Contents Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid, and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Federal law contains numerous provisions designed to ensure that services rendered by hospitals to Medicare and Medicaid patients meet professionally recognized standards and are medically necessary and that claims for reimbursement are properly filed. These provisions include a requirement that a sampling of admissions of Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed by quality improvement organizations, which review the appropriateness of Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care provided, the validity of MS-DRG classifications and the appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay or cost on a post-discharge basis. Quality improvement organizations may deny payment for services or assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to HHS that a provider which is in substantial noncompliance with the standards of the quality improvement organization be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. The ACA potentially expands the use of prepayment review by Medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use, and, as a result, efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Utilization review is also a requirement of most non-governmental managed care organizations and other third-party payors. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by third party payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Although we are unable to predict the effect these controls and changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payors currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. The ACA contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing. Effective July 1, 2011, the ACA prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hospital acquired conditions (“HAC“s). Beginning in federal fiscal year (“FFY”) 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Another provision reduces payments for all inpatient discharges for hospitals that experience excessive readmissions for certain conditions designated by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (“HHS”). The ACA also requires HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services. The ACA requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in FFY 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in FFY 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. 20 Table of Contents The lingering effects of the economic recession could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The U.S. economy continues to experience the negative effects from an economic recession, and unemployment levels remain high. While certain healthcare spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of healthcare spending may be adversely impacted by such conditions. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose: • to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals; or • a high-deductible insurance plan or no insurance at all, which increases a hospitals dependence on self-pay revenue. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms. We are unable to determine the specific impact of these economic conditions on our business at this time, but we believe that the lingering effects of the economic recession could have an adverse impact on our operations and could impact not only the healthcare decisions of our patients, but also the solvency of managed care providers and other counterparties to transactions with us. The failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain manufacturing and other facilities in our markets, can have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. The economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers, especially manufacturing or other facilities. These employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals for care. The failure of one or more large employers, or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at manufacturing or other facilities located in or near many of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere for employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events may cause a material reduction in our revenues and results of operations or impede our business strategies intended to generate organic growth and improve operating results at our hospitals. We may have difficulty acquiring hospitals on favorable terms. One element of our business strategy is expansion through the acquisition of surgical hospitals primarily in urban markets. We face significant competition to acquire attractive hospitals, and we may not find suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. Our primary competitors for acquisitions have included for-profit and tax-exempt hospitals and hospital systems and privately capitalized start-up companies. Buyers with a strategic desire for any particular hospital, for example, a hospital located near existing hospitals or those who will realize economic synergies, have demonstrated an ability and willingness to pay premium prices for hospitals. Strategic buyers, as a result, can present a competitive barrier to our acquisition efforts. Given the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment, our ability to acquire hospitals could be negatively impacted if targets are found to have material unresolved compliance issues. We may condition our purchase on the resolution of such issues by reporting or refunding amounts under the voluntary self-disclosure protocols. We could experience delays in closing or fail to close transactions with targets that initially were attractive but became unattractive as a result of a poor compliance program, material non-compliance with laws or failure to timely address compliance risks. The cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital’s results of operations, allocation of purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limitations on rate increases. In the past, we have occasionally experienced temporary delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of our acquired hospitals. In the future, if we are unable to improve the operating margins of acquired hospitals, operate them profitably or effectively integrate their operations, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. 21 Table of Contents Even if we are able to identify an attractive target, we may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, for any acquisitions or joint ventures that we might make or may be required to borrow at higher rates and on less favorable terms. We may incur or assume additional indebtedness as a result of acquisitions. Our failure to acquire non-urban hospitals consistent with our growth plans could prevent us from increasing our revenues. In recent years, the legislatures and attorneys general of several states have become more interested in sales of hospitals by tax-exempt entities. This heightened scrutiny may increase the cost and difficulty, or prevent the completion, of transactions with tax-exempt organizations in the future. We may encounter difficulty operating, integrating and improving financial performance at acquired hospitals. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate any hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. We may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. Integrating an acquired hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. In addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. In addition, we may not be able to achieve improved financial performance at acquired hospitals within our targeted time frames, or continue to improve financial performance for sustained periods following the acquisition. If we do not effectively attract, recruit and retain qualified physicians, our ability to deliver healthcare services efficiently will be adversely affected. As a general matter, only physicians on our medical staffs may direct hospital admissions and the services ordered once a patient is admitted to a hospital. As a result, the success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. The success of our efforts to recruit and retain quality physicians depends on several factors, including the actual and perceived quality of services provided by our hospitals, our ability to meet demands for new technology and our ability to identify and communicate with physicians who want to practice in non-urban communities. In particular, we face intense competition in the recruitment and retention of specialists because of the difficulty in convincing these individuals of the benefits of practicing or remaining in practice in non-urban communities. If the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate are not seen as attractive, then we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining physicians to practice in our communities. We may not be able to recruit all of the physicians we target. In addition, we may incur increased malpractice expense if the quality of physicians we recruit does not meet our expectations. Additionally, our ability to recruit physicians is closely regulated. For example, the types, amount and duration of assistance we can provide to recruited physicians are limited by the Stark law, the Anti-kickback Statute, state anti-kickback statutes, and related regulations. For example, the Stark law requires, among other things, that recruitment assistance can only be provided to physicians who meet certain geographic and practice requirements, that the amount of assistance cannot be changed during the term of the recruitment agreement, and that the recruitment payments cannot generally benefit physicians currently in practice in the community beyond recruitment costs actually incurred by them. In addition to these legal requirements, there is competition from other communities and facilities for these physicians, and this competition continues after the physician is practicing in one of our communities. Our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. In addition to our physicians, the operations of our hospitals are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and staff personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other non-physician healthcare 22 Table of Contents professionals. In some markets, the scarce availability of nurses and other medical support personnel presents a significant operating issue. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel, recruit personnel from foreign countries, and hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. In addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. State-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. Because a significant percentage of our revenue consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel or to control our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The loss of certain physicians can have a disproportionate impact on certain of our hospitals. Generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues and operating profits at such facility, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing functions to third parties. To improve operating margins, productivity and efficiency, we outsource selected nonclinical business functions to third parties. We take steps to monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties to whom the Company delegates selected functions, including revenue cycle management, patient access, billing, cash collections, payment compliance and support services, project implementation, supply chain management and payroll services. Arrangements with third party service providers may make our operations vulnerable if vendors fail to satisfy their obligations to us as a result of their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of our control. The expanding role of third party providers may also require changes to our existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers, as well as redistributing responsibilities as needed, in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies. Effective management, development and implementation of our outsourcing strategies are important to our business and strategy. If there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes or our third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we may not fully realize on a timely basis the anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other relationships we enter into with key vendors, which could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems for us. Terminating or transitioning arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs and a risk of operational delays, potential errors and possible control issues as a result of the termination or during the transition phase. If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Businesses we have acquired, or businesses we may acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, worker’s compensation liabilities, previous tax liabilities and unacceptable business practices. Although we endeavor to continue to obtain contractual indemnification from sellers covering these matters, any indemnification obtained from sellers may be insufficient to cover material claims or liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. 23 Table of Contents Other hospitals and outpatient facilities provide services similar to those which we offer. In addition, physicians provide services in their offices that could be provided in our hospitals. These factors increase the level of competition we face and may therefore adversely affect our revenues, profitability and market share Competition among hospitals and other healthcare service providers, including outpatient facilities, has intensified in recent years. We compete with other hospitals, including larger tertiary care centers located in larger metropolitan areas, and with physicians who provide services in their offices which could otherwise be provided in our hospitals. Although the hospitals with which we compete may be a significant distance away from our facilities, patients in our markets may migrate on their own to, may be referred by local physicians to, or may be encouraged by their health plan to travel to these hospitals. Furthermore, some of the hospitals with which we compete may offer more or different services than those available at our hospitals, may have more advanced equipment or may have a medical staff that is thought to be better qualified. Also, some of the hospitals that compete with our facilities are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. These hospitals, in most instances, are also exempt from paying sales, property and income taxes. Quality of care and value-based purchasing have also become significant trends and competitive factors in the healthcare industry. In 2005, CMS began making public performance data relating to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. Since that time, CMS has on several occasions increased the number of quality measures hospitals are required to report in order to receive the full IPPS and OPPS market basket updates. In addition, the Medicare program no longer reimburses hospitals for care relating to certain preventable adverse events, and many private healthcare payors have adopted similar policies. If the public performance data become a primary factor in where patients choose to receive care, and if competing hospitals have better results than our hospitals on those measures, we would expect that our patient volumes could decline. We also face very significant and increasing competition from services offered by physicians (including physicians on our medical staffs) in their offices and from other specialized care providers, including outpatient surgery, oncology, physical therapy and diagnostic centers (including many in which physicians may have an ownership interest). Some of our hospitals have and will seek to develop outpatient facilities where necessary to compete effectively. However, to the extent that other providers are successful in developing outpatient facilities or physicians are able to offer additional, advanced services in their offices, our market share for these services will likely decrease in the future. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets may be adversely affected. Technological advances, including with respect to computer-assisted tomography scanner (CTs), magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) and robotic surgery devices, continue to evolve. In addition, the manufacturers of such equipment often provide incentives to try to increase their sales, including providing favorable financing to higher credit risk organizations. In an effort to compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade our equipment as a result of technological improvements. We believe that the direction of the patient flow correlates directly to the level and intensity of such diagnostic equipment. If we don’t maintain our hospitals with diagnostic and surgical equipment that is in-line with current technological advances, we may lose patient traffic and our revenues may be materially reduced. We may be subject to liabilities because of malpractice and related legal claims brought against our hospitals. If we become subject to these claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance. We may be subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions arising out of the operations of our owned and leased hospitals and the activities of our employed physicians. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. We maintain professional and general liability insurance with unrelated commercial insurance carriers to provide for losses in excess of our deductible amount. Also, some of these claims could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims could be denied. If we are required to pay material amounts which are not covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash position, cash flows from operations and net income. 24 Table of Contents Our failure to successfully implement our growth plan may adversely affect our financial performance. We intend to grow incrementally through acquisitions of surgical hospitals. As this growth plan is pursued, we may encounter difficulties expanding and improving our operating and financial systems to maintain pace with the increased complexity of the expanded operations and management responsibilities. The success of our growth strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, including: • economic conditions; • competition; • the ability to attract and retain physician partners; • financing and working capital requirements; • the availability of new hospital acquisitions at a reasonable cost; and • the ability to negotiate purchase agreements on favorable terms. The failure of our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Material weaknesses in the design and operation of the internal controls over financial reporting of companies that we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. We intend to continue to grow our business through the acquisition of existing surgical hospitals. When we acquire such existing facilities our due diligence may fail to discover defects or deficiencies in the design and operations of the internal controls over financial reporting of such companies, or defects or deficiencies in the internal controls over financial reporting may arise when we try to integrate the operations of these newly acquired businesses with our own. We can provide no assurances that we will not experience such issues in future acquisitions, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. For example, we have identified certain material weaknesses at FSA and FSHA related to the lack of sufficient internal review and approval of critical accounting schedules used in the preparation of financial statements and the lack of sufficient review and approval of the accounting impact and treatment of material contract and agreements (See Item 9A – Controls and Procedures). The goodwill and other intangible assets acquired pursuant to our acquisitions of hospitals and ASCs may become impaired and require write-downs and the recognition of substantial impairment expense. Goodwill and other intangible assets related to future acquisitions may require additional write-downs and the recognition of additional substantial impairment expense. At December 31, 2013, we had $1.0 million and $11.1 million in goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively, that were recorded in connection with the acquisitions of our hospitals and ASCs. We periodically evaluate whether or not to take an impairment charge on our goodwill, as required by the applicable accounting literature. Our evaluation is based on our (i) assessment of current and expected future economic conditions, (ii) trends, strategies and forecasted cash flows at each business unit and (iii) assumptions similar to those that market participants would make in valuing our business units. Our evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets completed during 2013 identified an impairment in goodwill of $21.9 million related to the reverse acquisition treatment of the Foundation Acquisition. In the event that this goodwill or other intangible assets are determined to be further impaired for any reason, we will be required to write-down or reduce the value of the goodwill and recognize an impairment expense. The impairment expense may be substantial in amount and adversely affect the results of our operations for the applicable period and may negatively affect the market value of our common stock. Also, in the event that we record additional goodwill or other intangibles on future acquisitions and we subsequently determine the goodwill or other intangibles to be impaired for any reason, we will be required to write-down or reduce the value of the goodwill and recognize an impairment expense. The impairment expense may be substantial in amount and adversely affect the results of our operations for the applicable period and may negatively affect the market value of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Healthcare Regulation We cannot predict the effect that the ACA and its implementation may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The ACA was signed into law, in two parts, on March 23, 2010 and March 30, 2010. The ACA dramatically alters the U.S. healthcare system and is intended to decrease the number of uninsured Americans and reduce the overall cost of healthcare. The ACA attempts to achieve these goals by, among other things, requiring most Americans to obtain health insurance, expanding Medicare and Medicaid eligibility, reducing Medicare and Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) payments to providers, expanding the Medicare program’s use of value-based purchasing programs, tying hospital payments to the satisfaction of certain quality criteria, bundling payments to hospitals and other providers, and instituting certain private health insurance reforms. Although a majority of the measures contained in the ACA just recently became, certain of the reductions in Medicare spending, such as negative adjustments to the Medicare hospital inpatient and outpatient prospective payment system market basket updates and the incorporation of productivity adjustments to the Medicare program’s annual inflation updates, became effective in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Although the expansion of health insurance coverage should increase revenues from providing care to certain previously uninsured individuals, many of these provisions of the ACA will continue to become effective beyond 2014, and the impact of such expansion may be gradual and may not offset scheduled decreases in reimbursement. On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the ACA, including the “individual mandate” provisions of the ACA that generally require all individuals to obtain healthcare insurance or pay a penalty. However, the U.S. Supreme Court also held that the provision of the ACA that authorized the Secretary of HHS to penalize states that choose not to participate in the expansion of the Medicaid program by removing all of their existing Medicaid funding was unconstitutional. In response to the ruling, a number of U.S. governors, including those of some states in which we operate, have stated that they oppose their state’s participation in the expanded Medicaid program, which could result in the ACA not providing coverage to some low-income persons in those states. In addition, several bills have been and may continue to be introduced in Congress to repeal or amend all or significant provisions of the ACA. The ACA changes how healthcare services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed. The net effect of the ACA on our business is subject to numerous variables, including the law’s complexity, lack of complete implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation or possible amendment, as well as the uncertainty as to the extent to which states will choose to participate in the expanded Medicaid program. As a result, we are unable to predict the net effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations of the expected increases in insured individuals using our facilities, the reductions in government healthcare reimbursement spending, and numerous other provisions of the ACA that may affect us. We are also unable to predict how providers, payors, employers and other market participants will respond to the various reform provisions because many provisions will not be implemented for several years under the ACA’s implementation schedule. Further, we are unable to predict the outcome of new or remaining court challenges and the impact of continued legislative efforts to delay implementation of or amend the ACA. Our revenues will decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or if managed care companies reduce reimbursement amounts. In addition, the financial condition of payors and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our revenues and profitability. In 2013, we derived 27% of our revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, collectively. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements and requirements for utilization review, among other things, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the timing of payments to our facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of future government healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payors are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payors is limited or if we or one or more of our hospitals are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government healthcare program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, revenues from HMOs, PPOs and other private payors are subject to contracts and other arrangements that require us to discount the amounts we customarily charge for healthcare services. 26 Table of Contents During the past several years, healthcare payors, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk related to paying for care provided, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Similarly, many individuals and employers have attempted to reduce their healthcare costs by moving to private payor plans that reimburse our facilities at significantly lower rate than other competing private payors. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and private payors to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services. In addition, payors have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services. For example, CMS has transitioned to full implementation of the MS-DRG system, which represents a refinement to the existing diagnosis-related group system. Future realignments in the MS-DRG system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. Furthermore, the ACA, the Tax Relief Act and the ATRA provide for material reductions in the growth of Medicare program spending, including reductions in Medicare market basket updates, and Medicare DSH funding. All, but one, of our hospitals are certified as providers of Medicaid services. Medicaid programs are jointly funded by federal and state governments and are administered by states under an approved plan that provides hospital and other healthcare benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford care. A number of states, however, are experiencing budget problems and have adopted or are considering legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures, including enrolling Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and imposing additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand such states’ Medicaid systems. It is possible that budgetary pressures will force states to resort to some of the cost saving measures mentioned above. These efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to increasingly stringent governmental regulation, and may be subjected to allegations that we have failed to comply with governmental regulations which could result in sanctions and even greater scrutiny that reduce our revenues and profitability. All participants in the healthcare industry are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals meet various requirements, including those relating to hospitals’ relationships with physicians and other referral sources, the adequacy and quality of medical care, inpatient admission criteria, privacy and security of health information, standards for equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, billing and cost reports, payment for services and supplies, maintenance of adequate records, compliance with building codes and environmental protection, among other matters. Many of the laws and regulations applicable to the healthcare industry are complex, and there are numerous enforcement authorities, including CMS, OIG, State Attorneys General, and contracted auditors, as well as whistleblowers. Some positions taken in connection with enforcement appear to be inconsistent with historical common practices within the industry but have not previously been challenged. Moreover, as a result of the provisions of the ACA that created potential False Claims Act liabilities for failing to report and repay known overpayments and return an overpayment within sixty (60) days of the identification of the overpayment or the date by which a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later, hospitals and other healthcare providers are encouraged to disclose potential violations of law. Hospitals continue to be one of the primary focal areas of the OIG and other governmental fraud and abuse programs. In January 2005, the OIG issued Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals that focuses on hospital compliance risk areas. Some of the risk areas highlighted by the OIG include correct outpatient procedure coding, revising admission and discharge policies to reflect current CMS rules, submitting appropriate claims for supplemental payments such as pass-through costs and outlier payments and a general discussion of the fraud and abuse risks related to financial relationships with referral sources. Each FFY, the OIG also publishes a General Work Plan that provides a brief description of the activities that the OIG plans to initiate or continue with respect to the programs and operations of HHS and details the areas that the OIG believes are prone to fraud and abuse. 27 Table of Contents The laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our hospitals and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Finally, we are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Our healthcare operations generate medical waste, such as pharmaceuticals, biological materials and disposable medical instruments that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our operations are also subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. Environmental regulations also may apply when we renovate or refurbish hospitals, particularly older facilities. As a result of increased reviews of claims to Medicare and Medicaid for our services, we may incur additional costs and may be required to repay amounts already paid to us. We are subject to regular post-payment inquiries, investigations and audits of the claims we submit to Medicare for payment for our services. These post-payment reviews are increasing as a result of government cost-containment initiatives, including enhanced medical necessity reviews for Medicare patients admitted as inpatients to general acute care hospitals for certain procedures (e.g., cardiovascular procedures) and audits of Medicare claims under the RAC programs. RACs utilize a post-payment targeted review process employing data analysis techniques in order to identify those Medicare claims most likely to contain overpayments, such as incorrectly coded services, short stays, incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services and duplicate payments. The claims review strategies used by the RACs generally include a review of high dollar claims, including inpatient hospital claims. As a result, a large majority of the total amounts recovered by RACs has come from hospitals. In addition, CMS has announced a pre-payment demonstration project that will allow RACs to review claims before they are paid to ensure that the provider complied with all Medicare payment rules. Under the demonstration project, RACs conduct prepayment reviews on certain types of claims that historically result in high rates of improper payments, beginning with those involving short stay inpatient hospital services. These reviews will focus on certain states with high populations of fraud and error-prone providers (including the state of Texas in which we operate) and other states high claims volumes of short inpatient hospital stays. The demonstration project began on August 27, 2012 and will run for a three year period. The ACA expanded the RAC program’s scope to include managed Medicare and to include Medicaid claims, and all states are now required to establish programs to contract with RACs. In addition, CMS employs Medicaid Integrity Contractors (“MICs”) to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. The ACA increases federal funding for the MIC program for FFY 2011 and later years. In addition to RACs and MICs, the state Medicaid agencies and other contractors have also increased their review activities. Any such audit or investigation could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. If we fail to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from governmental programs, which may result in a substantial loss of revenues. The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally funded healthcare program. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad in scope, and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Courts have found a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute if just one purpose of the remuneration is to generate referrals, even if there are other lawful purposes. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, plus three times the remuneration involved or the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our exclusion from participation in such programs would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have also adopted laws, similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute, that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically impose criminal and civil penalties, including the loss of a license to do business in the state. 28 Table of Contents In July 1991, HHS issued final regulations defining various “safe harbors” under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Business arrangements that meet the requirements of the safe harbors are deemed to be in compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute. Business arrangements that do not meet the safe harbor requirements do not necessarily violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, but may be subject to scrutiny by the Federal government to determine compliance. Although we believe that our business arrangements do not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws, a government agency or a private party may assert a contrary position. Additionally, new federal or state laws may be enacted that would cause our relationships with our physician partners to become illegal or result in the imposition of penalties against us or our facilities. If any of our business arrangements with physician partners were alleged or deemed to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subjected to actions brought by the government under anti-fraud and abuse provisions or by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s “qui tam” or “whistleblower” provisions. The federal False Claims Act prohibits providers from, among other things, knowingly submitting false claims for payment to the federal government. The “qui tam” or “whistleblower” provisions of the False Claims Act allow private individuals to bring actions under the False Claims Act on behalf of the government. These private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of “whistleblower” lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. Defendants found to be liable under the federal False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties ranging between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. The government has used the False Claims Act to prosecute Medicare and other government healthcare program fraud such as coding errors, billing for services not provided, submitting false cost reports, and providing care that is not medically necessary or that is substandard in quality. The ACA also provides that claims submitted in connection with patient referrals that result from violations of the Anti-kickback Statute constitute false claims for the purposes of the federal False Claims Act, and some courts have held that a violation of the Stark law can result in False Claims Act liability, as well. In addition, a number of states have adopted their own false claims and whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit in state court. We are required to provide information to our employees and certain contractors about state and federal false claims laws and whistleblower provisions and protections. Although we intend and will endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, many of these laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied in ways that cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws. If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. As required by ARRA, the Secretary of HHS has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and healthcare professionals that adopt and meaningfully use electronic health record (“EHR”) technology. HHS uses the Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System (“PECOS”) to verify Medicare enrollment prior to making EHR incentive program payments. If our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in PECOS, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems. Further, beginning in FFY 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. System conversions to comply with EHR could be time consuming and disruptive for physicians and employees. Failure to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We are in process of converting certain of our clinical and patient accounting information system applications to newer versions of existing applications or all together new applications at several of our facilities. In connection with our implementations and conversions, we have incurred significant capitalized costs and additional training and implementation expenses. In addition, EHR incentive payments previously recognized are subject to audit and potential recoupment if it is determined that we did not meet the applicable meaningful use standards required in connection with such incentive payments. If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and a significant loss of revenues. The federal physician self-referral law, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, prohibits a physician from making a referral to an entity for the furnishing of certain “designated health services” otherwise payable under Medicare or Medicaid if the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has a financial relationship with the entity, such as an ownership interest or compensation arrangement, unless an exception applies. The Stark Law also prohibits entities that provide designated health services otherwise payable by Medicare or Medicaid from billing the Medicare and Medicaid programs for any items or services that result from a prohibited referral and requires the entities to refund amounts received for items or services provided pursuant to the prohibited referral. HHS, acting through CMS, has promulgated regulations implementing the Stark Law. These regulations exclude health services provided by an ASC from the definition of “designated health services” if the services are included in the facility’s composite Medicare payment rate. Therefore, the Stark Law’s self-referral prohibition generally does not apply to health services provided by an ASC. However, if the ASC is separately billing Medicare for designated health services that are not covered under the ASC’s composite Medicare payment rate, or if either the ASC or an affiliated physician is performing (and billing Medicare) for procedures that involve designated health services that Medicare has not designated as an ASC service, the Stark Law’s self-referral prohibition would apply and such services could implicate the Stark Law. We believe that our operations do not violate the Stark Law, as currently interpreted. All services provided by our ASCs that would otherwise constitute designated health services are reimbursed by Medicare as part of the composite payment rate and are thus subject to an exception from the Stark Law, with the exception of implants. The Stark Law provides for a special exception for implants, such as intraocular lenses and artificial joints, furnished in ASCs as long as certain regulatory requirements are met. These requirements provide that the implant must be implanted by the referring physician or a member of his or her group practice, that the implant be implanted during a surgical procedure reimbursed as an ASC procedure by Medicare, that the arrangement for the furnishing of the implant not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute and that the billing for the implant be conducted legally. In addition, we believe that physician ownership of ASCs is not prohibited by similar self-referral statutes enacted at the state level. However, the Stark Law and similar state statutes are subject to different interpretations with respect to many important provisions. Moreover, the Stark Law applies to our surgical hospitals. Violations of these self-referral laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including large civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If physician self-referral laws are interpreted differently or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur significant sanctions and loss of revenues, or we could have to change our arrangements and operations in a way that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state audits and investigations, and we may be subject to such audits and investigations, including actions for false and other improper claims. Federal and state government agencies, as well as commercial payors, have increased their auditing and administrative, civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations. These audits and investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including the following: cost reporting and billing practices; quality of care; financial reporting; financial relationships with referral sources; and medical necessity of services provided. In addition, the OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. The Federal government is authorized to impose criminal, civil and administrative penalties on any person or entity that files a false claim for payment from the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Claims filed with private insurers can also lead to criminal and civil penalties. While the criminal statutes are generally reserved for instances 30 Table of Contents of fraudulent intent, the Federal government is applying its criminal, civil and administrative penalty statutes in an ever-expanding range of circumstances, including claiming payment for unnecessary services if the claimant merely should have known the services were unnecessary and claiming payment for low-quality services if the claimant should have known that the care was substandard. In addition, a violation of the Stark Law or the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in liability under the FCA. Over the past several years, the Federal government has accused an increasing number of healthcare providers of violating the FCA, which prohibits a person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim to the Federal government. The statute defines “knowingly” to include not only actual knowledge of a claim’s falsity, but also reckless disregard for or intentional ignorance of the truth or falsity of a claim. Violators of the FCA are subject to severe financial penalties, including treble damages and per claim penalties in excess of $10,000. Because our facilities perform hundreds or thousands of similar procedures each year for which they are paid by Medicare, and since the statute of limitations for such claims extends for six years under normal circumstances (and possibly as long as ten years in the event of failure to discover material facts), a repetitive billing error or cost reporting error could result in significant, material repayments and civil or criminal penalties. We are also subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as contractual provisions with commercial payors that prohibit us from submitting inaccurate, incorrect or misleading claims. We believe that our surgical facilities are in material compliance with all such laws, regulations and contractual provisions regarding the submission of claims. We cannot be sure, however, that none of our surgical facilities’ claims will ever be challenged. If we were found to be in violation of a state’s laws or regulations, or of a commercial payor contract, we could be forced to discontinue the violative practice and be subject to recoupment actions, fines and criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. All payors are increasingly conducting post-payment audits. For example, CMS has implemented the RAC program, involving Medicare claims audits nationwide. Under the program, CMS contracts with RACs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service Medicare program. The ACA expanded the RAC program’s scope to include managed Medicare plans and to include Medicaid claims. In addition, CMS employs Medicaid Integrity Contractors (“MICs”) to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. The ACA increases federal funding for the MIC program. In addition to RACs and MICs, the state Medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. We are regularly subject to these external audits and we also perform internal audits and monitoring. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Federal law restricts the ability of our surgical hospitals to expand surgical capacity. The Stark Law includes an exception that permits physicians to refer Medicare and Medicaid patients to hospitals in which they have an ownership interest if certain requirements are met. However, the ACA dramatically curtailed this exception and prohibits physician ownership in hospitals that did not have a Medicare provider agreement by December 31, 2010. This prohibition does not apply to our surgical hospitals, each of which had a Medicare provider agreement in place prior to December 31, 2010 and are therefore able to continue operating with their existing ownership structure. However, the ACA prohibits “grandfathered” hospitals from increasing their percentage of physician ownership, and it limits to a certain extent their ability to grow, because it prohibits such hospitals from increasing the aggregate number of inpatient beds, operating rooms and procedure rooms. We are subject to potential legal and reputational risk as a result of our access to personal information of our patients. There are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access to or theft of personal information. In the ordinary course of our business, we, and vendors on our behalf, collect and store sensitive data, including personal health data and other personally identifiable information of our patients. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information are critical to our operations and business strategy. We have developed a comprehensive set of policies and procedures in our efforts to comply with HIPAA and other privacy laws. The HHS Office for Civil Rights has imposed civil 31 Table of Contents monetary penalties and corrective action plans on covered entities for violating HIPAA’s privacy rule. If, in spite of our compliance efforts we were to experience a breach, loss, or other compromise of such personal health information, such event could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, result in regulatory penalties, legal claims and liability under HIPAA and other state and federal laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, we could incur substantial penalties and fines. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and the maintenance of a safe workplace. Our operations include the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials. We also plan to acquire ownership or operational interests in new facilities and properties, some of which may have had a history of commercial or other operations. We may, in the future, incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to contamination of sites we own or operate (including contamination caused by prior owners or operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous substances. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil penalties or fines. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB, which may limit the liquidity and price of our common stock more than if our common stock quoted or listed on or a national securities exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCQB, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not listed on a national securities exchange. Quotation of our common stock on the OTCQB may limit the liquidity and price of our common stock more than if our common stock was quoted or listed on a national securities exchange. Some investors may perceive our common stock to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, as an OTCQB company, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on a national securities exchange. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, holders of our common stock may face restrictions on the resale of our common stock due to state “blue sky” laws. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our common stock. Our securities are “Penny Stock” and subject to specific rules governing their sale to investors. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell shares of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. In the future, we may issue additional authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock are currently traded on the OTCQB. Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us and they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. Our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock together beneficially own approximately 89% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock will have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • changes to the composition of our Board of Directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers; • proposed mergers, consolidations or other business combinations; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our shares of common stock. This concentration of ownership of shares of our common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other purchases of shares of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The interests of our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, including securities of healthcare companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor perception of our business and our prospects; • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in healthcare laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or • general economic and stock market conditions. 33 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of healthcare companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend solely on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our shares of common stock and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business and for general corporate purposes. In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 