Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors and the matters discussed below and elsewhere in this report should be considered when evaluating our business operations and strategies. Additionally, there may be risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently deem immaterial, which may become material factors affecting our operations and business success. Many of the factors are not within our control. We provide no assurance that one or more of these factors will not: • adversely affect • the market price of our common stock, • our future operations, and • our business, • financial condition, or • results of operations • require significant reduction or discontinuance of our operations, • require us to seek a merger partner or • require us to sell additional stock on terms that are highly dilutive to our shareholders, and • may ultimately result in a decline in or complete loss of the value of our securities. Forward-looking statements are included in this report. We have included some forward-looking statements in this section and other places in this report regarding our expectations. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should” or “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategies that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: • discuss our future expectations; • contain projections of our future operating results or of our future financial condition; or • state other “forward-looking” information. We believe it is important to discuss our expectations; however, it must be recognized that events may occur in the future over which we have no control and which we are not accurately able to predict. Readers are cautioned to consider the specific business risk factors described in the report and not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this report. The markets for sleep diagnostic services and sale of related products are highly competitive, and we compete against substantially larger healthcare providers, including hospitals and clinics. -18- Table of Contents Competition among companies that provide healthcare services and supplies is intense. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or future competitors, we may be prevented from retaining our existing customers or from attracting new customers, which could materially impair our business. There are a number of companies that currently offer or are in the process of offering services and supplies that compete with our sleep diagnostic and care management services and related product and supplies sales. These competitors may succeed in providing services and products that are more effective, less expensive or both, than those we currently offer or that would render some of our services or supplies obsolete or non-competitive. Some of our competitors may submit lower bids in a competitive bidding process or may be able to accept lower reimbursement rates from third party payors, thus gaining market share in our target markets. Many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we have and may be in a better position than us to withstand the adverse effects on gross margins and profitability caused by price decreases prevalent in this competitive environment. We face a high level of competition in our ApothecaryRx operating segment. We operate in highly competitive markets. Our pharmacies compete with national, regional and local drugstore chains, discount drugstores, supermarkets, combination food and drugstores, discount general merchandise stores, mass merchandisers, independent drugstores and local merchants. Major chain competitors include Wal-Mart, Walgreens, Target and CVS. In addition, other chain stores may enter market areas in which we operate and become significant competitors in the future. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. If any of our current competitors, or new competitors, were to devote significant resources to enhancing or establishing an increased presence within our market areas, they could make it difficult for us to maintain or grow our market share or maintain our margins, and our advertising and promotional costs could increase. In addition to competition from the drugstore chains, we also compete with hospitals, health maintenance organizations and Canadian imports. Another adverse trend affecting retail store pharmacies has been the rapid growth in mail-order and internet-based prescription processors. These prescription distribution methods have grown in market share relative to retail store pharmacies in response to the rapid rise in drug costs experienced in recent years. We believe mail-order prescription distribution methods are perceived by employers and insurers as being less costly than traditional distribution methods and are being mandated by an increasing number of third-party pharmacy benefit managers, many of which also own and manage mail-order distribution operations, as well as a growing number of employers and unions. In addition to these forms of mail-order distribution, there has also been an increasing number of internet-based prescription distributors that specialize in offering certain high demand lifestyle drugs at deeply discounted prices. A number of these internet-based distributors operate illicitly and outside the reach of regulations that govern legitimate retail store pharmacies. Competition from Canadian imports has also been increasing significantly and also creates volume and pricing pressure. Imports from foreign countries may increase further if recently introduced legislation seeking to legalize the importation of drugs from Canada and other countries is eventually enacted. These alternate distribution channels have acted to restrain the rate of sales growth for traditional retail store pharmacies as well as the chain drug retailers in the last few years. We require a significant amount of cash flow from operations and third-party financing to pay our indebtedness, to execute our business plan and to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us under existing loan facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness, to execute our business plan or to fund our other liquidity needs. We anticipate the need for substantial cash flow to fund future acquisitions of additional sleep centers, which is our primary growth strategy. In addition, we may need to refinance some or all of our current indebtedness at or before maturity. We incurred indebtedness with an outstanding balance at December 31, 2009 of approximately $44.4 million to fund the acquisitions of our existing sleep centers and pharmacies, in the form of a credit facility and term loan. The outstanding principal amounts under the credit facility and the term loan bear interest at the greater of the Wall Street Journal prime rate or 5%. Further details about this indebtedness can be found in “Management’s -19- Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We have also incurred debt obligations from seller financing in connection with some of our acquisitions, the outstanding balance of which, at December 31, 2009, was approximately $2.0 million. The outstanding balance on our seller financing debt carries interest rates that range from 0.0% to 7.65% with maturity dates ranging from January 2010 to November 2013. At December 31, 2009, we had total liabilities of approximately $56.6 million. Because of our lack of significant historical operations, there is no assurance that our operating results will provide sufficient funding to pay our liabilities on a timely basis. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our current indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to generate or raise sufficient funds may require us to modify, delay or abandon some of our future business growth strategies or expenditure plans. If third party payors determine that we violate Medicare, Medicaid or other payor reimbursement laws, regulations, or requirements, our revenues may decrease, we may have to restructure our method of billing and collecting Medicare, Medicaid or other payor program payments, respectively, and we could incur substantial defense costs and be subject to fines, monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Our operations, including our billing and other arrangements with healthcare providers, are subject to extensive federal and state government regulation and requirements of other third-party payors. Such regulations and requirements include numerous laws directed at payment for services, conduct of operations, preventing fraud and abuse, laws prohibiting general business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine, controlling physicians’ medical decisions or engaging in some practices such as splitting fees with physicians, laws regulating billing and collection of reimbursement from government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and requirements of other payors. Those laws and requirements may have related rules and regulations that are subject to alternative interpretations and may not provide definitive guidance as to their application to our operations, including our arrangements with hospitals, physicians and professional corporations. For our SMS segment, we verify patient benefit eligibility prior to providing services or products. We submit claims for service and products after they have been provided. Claims are supported by required documentation including physician orders. Despite our measures to ensure compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, or other payor billing standards, such third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not reimbursable, that the service was not medically necessary, that there was a lack of sufficient supporting documentation, or for other reasons. Incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information could result in nonpayment, recoupment or allegations of billing fraud. For our ApothecaryRx segment, we bill third-party payors at the time we fill the prescription. Our pharmacy management system allows us to perform on-line adjudication of these claims and provides the amount the third-party payor will pay for a prescribed drug before we dispense the item or provide it to our customers. We then reconcile the adjudicated amounts to the payments when received. We are not aware of any inquiry, investigation or notice from any governmental entity or other payor indicating that we are in violation of any of the Medicare, Medicaid or other payor reimbursement laws, regulations, or requirements. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these laws, rules and regulations based upon what we believe are reasonable and defensible interpretations of these laws, rules and regulations. However, such laws and related regulations and regulatory guidance may be ambiguous or contradictory, and may be interpreted or applied by prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authorities in ways that we cannot predict. If federal or state government officials or other payors challenge our operations or arrangements with third parties that we have structured based upon our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations, the challenge could potentially disrupt our business operations and we may incur substantial defense costs, even if we successfully defend our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations. In addition, if the government or other payors successfully challenge our interpretation as to the applicability of these laws, rules and regulations as they relate to our operations and arrangements with third parties, we would potentially incur substantial cost restructuring our billing practice, as well as fines or penalties for non-compliance which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -20- Table of Contents In the event regulatory action were to limit or prohibit us from carrying on our business as we presently conduct it or from expanding our operations to certain jurisdictions, we may need to make structural, operational and organizational modifications to our company and/or our contractual arrangements with third-party payors, physicians, or others. Our operating costs could increase significantly as a result. We could also lose contracts or our revenues could decrease under existing contracts. Any restructuring would also negatively impact our operations because our management’s time and attention would be diverted from running our business in the ordinary course. We are subject to complex rules and regulations that govern our licensing and certification, and the failure to comply with these rules can result in delays in, or loss of, reimbursement for our services or civil or criminal sanctions. There has been a trend developing to require facilities that provide sleep diagnostic testing and durable medical equipment to become accredited by an approved accreditation organization as well as additional credentialing for physicians diagnosing sleep disorders and the licensing of technical personnel to perform diagnostic testing procedures. As of December 31, 2009, ten of our sleep centers have been accredited by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, or the AASM. Another five sleep centers have completed accreditation survey activities and have certifications pending with either the AASM or The Joint Commission. We are actively pursuing accreditation for our remaining sleep centers. We believe we will achieve full accreditation for these centers by mid-2010. Additionally, as of September 30, 2009, Medicare required that all Durable Medical Equipment (DME) suppliers be accredited with the exception of pharmacies supplying DME, whose deadline was extended to January 1, 2010. As of June 15, 2009, all of our sleep therapy facilities providing DME were granted accreditation by The Joint Commission or by the Accreditation Commission for Healthcare, or ACHC. Physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and respiratory therapists who provide services as part of our operations are required to obtain and maintain professional licenses and are subject to state regulations regarding professional standards of conduct. Some states also require our free-standing diagnostic testing facilities and DME providers to be licensed by or registered with state authorities such as state departments of health. We believe that we are in compliance with the licensing and registration in applicable states. State law requires that companies operating a pharmacy within the state be licensed by the state board of pharmacy. Some states also require companies dispensing DME and supplies to be licensed by the state board of pharmacy. We currently have pharmacy licenses for each pharmacy we operate. Also, we currently have a pharmacy license for dispensing of durable medical equipment and supplies in applicable states. In addition, pharmacies are required to be registered with state and federal authorities under statutes governing the regulation of controlled substances. Pharmacists who provide services as part of our operations are required to obtain and maintain professional licenses and are subject to state regulations regarding professional standards of conduct. The relevant laws and regulations are complex and may be unclear or subject to interpretation. Currently we believe we are in compliance with all requisite regulatory authorities; however, agencies that administer these programs may find that we have failed to comply in some material respects. Failure to comply with these licensing, certification and accreditation laws, regulations and standards could result in our services being found non-reimbursable or prior payments being subject to recoupment, and can give rise to civil or, in extreme cases, criminal penalties. Government and private insurance plans may further reduce or discontinue healthcare reimbursements, which could result in reductions in our revenue and operating margins. A substantial portion of the cost of medical care in the United States is funded by managed care organizations, insurance companies, government funded programs, employers and other third-party payors, which are collectively referred to as “third-party plans.” These plans continue to seek cost containment. If this funding were to be reduced in terms of coverage or payment rates or were to become unavailable to our pharmacy customers or sleep disorder patients, our business will be adversely affected. Furthermore, managed care organizations and -21- Table of Contents insurance companies are evaluating approaches to reduce costs by decreasing the frequency of treatment or the utilization of a medical device or product. These cost containment measures have caused the decision-making function with respect to purchasing to shift in many cases from the physician to the third-party plans or payors, resulting in an increased emphasis on reduced price, as opposed to clinical benefits or a particular product’s features. Efforts by U.S. governmental and private payors to contain costs will likely continue. Because we generally receive payment for our sleep diagnostic services and related products and our pharmacy sales directly from these third-party plans, our business operations are dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate and timely reimbursement for our pharmacy sales and sleep diagnostic services and related products. The third-party payors include Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers. These payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a diagnostic test was not covered under the patient’s plan or performed properly or that a device is not covered under the patient’s plan, is not used in accordance with approved indications, or is unnecessary or deemed to be inappropriate treatment for the patient. For example, federal payors and commercial concerns that have adopted similar standards will only fully reimburse us for a CPAP device if the patient can demonstrate compliance for the first 90 days after the initial set-up. Third-party payors are also increasingly challenging prices charged for medical products and services. There is no assurance that our sleep diagnostic services and the related products will be considered cost-effective by third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available, or that payors’ reimbursement policies will not adversely affect our ability to offer and sell our services and products on a profitable basis, if at all. Our prescription drug sales are subject to unfavorable trends that are not within our control. Our pharmacy sales, which are lower-margin than front-end store sales such as over-the-counter medications, cosmetics and gift merchandise, represent a substantial percentage of our total revenue. During 2009 and 2008, prescription pharmaceutical sales accounted for approximately 93% and 94%, respectively, of total ApothecaryRx sales. Prescription drug sales not only have lower margins than non-prescription drug sales but are also subject to increasing margin pressure from third-party plans seeking cost containment. In addition, an increasing number of employers are now requiring participants in their plans to obtain some of their prescription drugs, especially those for non-acute conditions, through mail-order providers. These factors and other factors related to prescription drug sales had a negative impact on our pharmacy sales in 2009 and 2008 and could continue to have a negative impact in the future. The continued conversion of prescription drugs to over-the-counter medications could result in reduced pharmacy sales. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs to over-the-counter medications may materially reduce our pharmacy sales, and customers may seek to purchase those medications at non-pharmacy stores, including discount retail stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. The withdrawal of certain drugs from the market, concerns about the safety or effectiveness of certain drugs, or negative publicity surrounding certain categories of drugs may also have a negative effect on our pharmacy sales or may cause shifts in our pharmacy and front-end product mix. Changes in reimbursement levels for sleep diagnostic services and related products and prescription drugs continue to reduce our margins and could have a material, adverse effect on our overall operating results. During 2009 and 2008, we were wholly or partially reimbursed by third-party plans for approximately 96% and 99%, respectively, of our revenue from sleep diagnostic services and product sales and for approximately 85% and 86%, respectively of the prescription drugs that we sold during those periods. We expect the percentage of prescription sales revenues reimbursed by third-party plans to increase. The sleep diagnostic and prescription sales revenue reimbursed by third-party plans, including Medicare and Medicaid plans, generally have lower gross margins compared to sales or services paid outside a third-party plan. Increases in the costs of our sleep related products and pharmaceuticals may not be sufficiently offset by increases in reimbursement rates. In addition, continued increases in co-payments by third-party plans may result in decreases in sales and revenue, operating and cash flow losses, and may deplete working capital reserves. -22- Table of Contents In particular, Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive and prospective reimbursement rate adjustments, administrative rulings, executive orders and freezes and funding restrictions, all of which may significantly impact our operations. During 2009 and 2008, 18% and 6%, respectively, of our sleep diagnostic revenues and 50% and 41%, respectively, of our total prescription sales, were attributable to Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement. Over the last several years, a number of states experiencing budget deficits have moved to reduce Medicaid reimbursement rates as part of healthcare cost containment. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act, which was enacted in 2003, and became effective in 2006, created a new Medicare Part D benefit that expanded Medicare coverage of prescription drugs for senior citizens not participating in third-party plans. During 2009 and 2008, sales to those customers represented 40% and 32%, respectively, of our total pharmacy sales. We depend on reimbursements by third-party payors, as well as payments by individuals, which could lead to delays and uncertainties in the reimbursement process. We receive a substantial portion of our payments for sleep center services and related supplies and pharmacy products from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private insurers and managed care organizations. During 2009, our sleep diagnostic payors mix, as a percentage of total sleep center revenues, was approximately 78% managed care organizations, 18% Medicaid/Medicare and 4% private-pay. During 2009, our pharmacy payor mix, as a percentage of total prescription sales, was approximately 35% managed care organizations, 50% Medicaid/Medicare and 15% private-pay. Pricing for private-pay patients is based on prevailing regional market rates. The reimbursement process is complex and can involve lengthy delays. Third-party payors continue their efforts to control expenditures for healthcare, including proposals to revise reimbursement policies. While we recognize revenue when healthcare services are provided, there can be delays before we receive payment. In addition, third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not reimbursable under plan coverage, that services provided were not medically necessary, or that additional supporting documentation is necessary. Retroactive adjustments may change amounts realized from third-party payors. These risks may be exacerbated for patients for whom we are out-of-network. We are subject to governmental audits of our reimbursement claims under Medicare and Medicaid and may be required to repay these agencies if a finding is made that we were incorrectly reimbursed. Delays and uncertainties in the reimbursement process may adversely affect accounts receivable, increase the overall costs of collection and cause us to incur additional borrowing costs. We also may not be paid with respect to co-payments and deductibles that are the patient’s financial responsibility, or in those instances when our facilities provide services to uninsured and underinsured individuals. Amounts not covered by third-party payors are the obligations of individual patients for which we may not receive whole or partial payment. In such an event, our earnings and cash flow would be adversely affected. Healthcare reform has been enacted and could impact the profitability of our business. On March 23, 2010, healthcare reform was enacted. This legislation dramatically alters the U.S. health-care system and is intended to increase access to health care and health insurance services, increase the quality of care that is provided, and control or reduce health care spending. In addition, the health-care reform legislation reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals and other healthcare providers. We cannot currently predict what effect such health-care reform legislation will have on us and our business and financial condition. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on the costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement patients and customers receive both from government and third-party plans or payors. Federal, state and local government representatives will, in all likelihood, continue to review and assess alternative regulations and payment methodologies. -23- Table of Contents Healthcare reform and enforcement initiatives of federal and state governments may also affect our sales and revenue. These include: • significant reductions in spending on Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs; • changes in programs providing for reimbursement for the cost of prescription drugs and other healthcare products by third-party plans or payors; • increased scrutiny of, and litigation relating to, prescription drug manufacturers’ pricing and marketing practices; and • regulatory changes relating to the approval process for prescription drugs and healthcare products in general. These initiatives could lead to the enactment of additional regulations, or changes to, existing federal regulations and state regulations that could adversely impact our prescription drug sales and, accordingly, its results of operations. There is uncertainty regarding the nature of healthcare reform implementation and whether there will be other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system. Recently enacted or future healthcare or budget legislation or other changes, including those referenced above, may materially adversely affect our business resulting in operating and cash flow losses, depletion of working capital reserves and adversely affect our financial condition. We rely on primary suppliers of sleep related products and pharmaceuticals to sell their products to us on satisfactory terms, and a disruption in our relationship with these suppliers could have a material, adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on merchandise vendors to provide sleep disorder related products and pharmaceuticals for our resale. Our largest sleep product supplier is Resmed, which supplied approximately 37% of our sleep supplies in 2009. Our largest sleep product supplier in 2008 was Fisher & Paykel Healthcare, which supplied approximately 44% of our sleep supplies. The largest of our pharmaceutical suppliers is Cardinal Healthcare, Inc., which supplied approximately 90% and 87% of our pharmaceutical products during 2009 and 2008, respectively. In our opinion, if any of these relationships were terminated or if any contracting party were to experience events precluding fulfillment of our needs, we would be able to find a suitable alternative supplier, but possibly not without significant disruption to our business. This could take a significant amount of time and result in a loss of customers and revenue, operating and cash flow losses and may deplete working capital reserves. We may be unable to attract, hire and retain qualified pharmacists, which could harm our business. As our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified pharmacists. The pharmacy industry is experiencing an ongoing shortage of licensed pharmacists. As a result, competition for qualified pharmacists and other pharmacy professionals has been especially strong, resulting in higher salaries, which we continue to match by raising the salaries of our pharmacists. Although we have generally been able to meet our pharmacist staffing requirements, our inability to do so in the future at costs that are favorable to us, or at all, could negatively impact our revenue, and our customers could experience lower levels of customer service. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Products that we sell, especially pharmaceuticals, could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage requiring us to recall products previously dispensed or sold. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell and we may be obligated to recall products that we previously sold. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, the coverage limits under these insurance programs may not be adequate to protect us against all future claims, and we may not be able to maintain this insurance coverage on acceptable terms in the future. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and may deplete working capital reserves. -24- Table of Contents We could be subject to professional liability lawsuits, some of which we may not be fully insured against or reserved for, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories such as negligent hiring, supervision and credentialing, and vicarious liability for acts of their employees or independent contractors. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. We maintain professional liability insurance, which covers third-party claims that may be brought against the physicians and staff that work at our sleep centers, up to a maximum of $3 million, which amount may be insufficient to satisfy all third-party claims that may be brought against our healthcare professionals. We are dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain physicians who are properly licensed and certified in the specialty of sleep medicine to oversee our sleep centers and provide medical services to our patients. Our success depends largely upon our ability to recruit and retain physicians who are licensed to practice medicine in the jurisdictions relevant to the sleep diagnostic testing centers. We currently have medical directors who oversee each of our sleep centers, provide sleep study interpretations and consultations to our patients. The loss of one or more medical directors could result in a time-consuming search for a replacement, and could distract our management team from the day-to-day operations of our business. Any change in our relationship with our supervising or interpreting physicians, whether resulting from a dispute between the parties, a change in government regulation, or the loss of contracts with these physicians, could impair our ability to provide services and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operations. In many markets our success is highly dependent upon the continuing ability to recruit and retain qualified sleep specialists to supervise sleep diagnostic testing services and interpret results of such tests for us due to the current shortage of sleep specialists in the medical profession. We face competition for sleep specialists from other healthcare providers, including hospitals and other organizations. The competitive demand for sleep specialists may require us in the future to offer higher compensation in order to secure the services of sleep specialists. As a result, our compensation expense for our affiliated sleep specialists may increase and if we were not able to offset any such increase by increasing our prices, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. An inability to recruit and retain sleep specialists would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain accreditation status and would adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of our accreditation or our inability to obtain accreditation could negatively impact our business and operating results. There has been a trend developing to require facilities that provide sleep diagnostic testing and equipment to become accredited by a Medicare approved accreditation organization in order to obtain reimbursement for provided such services. It is anticipated that many other government and private payors will follow suit requiring accreditation by certain approved organizations as a condition to reimbursement for sleep testing and treatment services or products. The loss of our accreditation or our inability to obtain accreditation for new facilities or existing facilities not yet accredited could cause us to be unable to provide services to certain accredited institutions, could cause non-compliance with certain of our third party payor contracts, and could cause us to lose our ability to participate in certain government programs such as Medicare, all of which could, in turn, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of corporate practice of medicine laws in certain states in which we are located, we are highly dependent upon our Independent Medical Practices, which we do not own. We provide our services directly to our patients in most circumstances. However, some states in which we operate, such as New York and Florida, prohibit the practice of medicine by a general business corporation. In those states we provide administrative and other services to independent medical practices, Daniel I. Rifkin, M.D., P.C. d/b/a Amherst Sleep Medicine and Coral Springs Sleep Medicine, Inc. (collectively referred to as Independent Medical Practices). The Independent Medical Practices are wholly owned by Dr. Daniel I. Rifkin. While the ownership of Independent Medical Practices is subject to certain restrictions contained in management agreements -25- Table of Contents between us and each of them, any change in our relationship, whether resulting from a dispute between the entities or their respective owners, a change in government regulation, or the loss of these Independent Medical Practices, could impair our ability to provide services and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operations in those particular states. In addition, if we acquire other sleep diagnostic businesses in states that require an independent medical practice structure, this risk would intensify. If our arrangements with physicians or our patients are found to violate state laws prohibiting the practice of medicine by general business corporations or fee splitting, our business, financial condition and ability to operate in those states could be adversely affected. The laws of many states, including states in which we engage physicians to perform medical services, prohibit us from exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians and from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as splitting professional fees with physicians. These laws and their interpretations vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. In states which do not allow us to exercise control over physicians or prohibit certain financial arrangements, we enter into agreements with physicians as independent contractors pursuant to which they render professional medical services. In some states, such as New York, we are only able to enter into agreements with independent physicians in which we provide administrative and other services. In addition, in some states, we enter into agreements with physicians to deliver professional sleep interpretation services and professional clinic services in exchange for a service fee. We structure our relationships with physicians in a manner that we believe is in compliance with prohibitions against the corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting. While we have not received notification from any state regulatory or similar authorities asserting that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that the payment of service fees to us by physicians or to physicians by us constitutes fee splitting, if such a claim were successful we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties and could be required to restructure or terminate the applicable contractual arrangements and our contractual arrangements may be unenforceable in that particular state. A determination that our arrangements with physicians violate state statutes, a change in government regulation, or our inability to successfully restructure these arrangements to comply with these statutes, could eliminate business located in certain states from the market for our services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Our failure to comply with government regulations, including broad and complex federal and state fraud and abuse laws, may result in substantial reimbursement obligations, damages, penalties, injunctive relief or exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. Our pharmacy, sleep diagnostic, therapy, and supply operations are subject to a variety of complex federal, state and local government laws and regulations targeted at fraud and abuse, including: • The federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind: (i) for referring an individual to a person for the provision of an item or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; or (ii) to induce a person to refer an individual to a person for the provision of an item or service covered under a federal healthcare program, or arrange for or recommend that someone purchase, lease, or order a good, facility, service, or item covered under a federal healthcare program; • State law equivalents to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items; • The federal False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement in order to have a false claim paid. The federal government’s interpretation of the scope of the law has in recent years grown increasingly broad. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor; -26- Table of Contents • The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits fraud on a health benefit plan and false statements. HIPAA created a federal healthcare fraud statute that prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. Among other things, HIPAA also imposes criminal penalties for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services, along with theft or embezzlement in connection with a healthcare benefits program and willful obstruction of a criminal investigation involving a federal healthcare offense; • The Stark Law prohibits the referral of Medicare and Medicaid “designated health services” which includes outpatient prescription drugs and durable medical equipment such as CPAP devices and may also include sleep diagnostic testing if the testing is billed by a hospital to Medicare or Medicaid to an entity if the physician or a member of such physician’s immediate family has a “financial relationship” with the entity, unless an exception applies. The Stark Law provides that the entity that renders the “designated health services” may not present or cause to be presented a claim for “designated health services” furnished pursuant to a prohibited referral. A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law’s prohibitions may be fined up to $100,000 for each applicable arrangement or scheme. In addition, anyone who presents or causes to be presented a claim in violation of the Stark Law is subject to payment denials, mandatory refunds, monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per service, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed, and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs; and • Many state laws prohibit physician referrals to entities with which the physician has a financial interest, or require that the physician provide the patient notice of the physician’s financial relationship before making the referral. State law equivalents to the Stark law may be applicable to different types of services than those that are “designated health services” under the federal law and may have fewer or different exceptions. In addition to those sanctions described above, violations of these or other government regulations could result in material penalties, including: civil monetary penalties, suspension of payments from government programs, loss of required government certifications, loss of licenses, loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs (including Medicare and Medicaid programs). Also, violations of federal, state, and common law privacy protections could give rise to significant damages, penalties, or injunctive relief. We believe that our practices are not in violation of the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, HIPAA, the Stark law, or state equivalents, but we cannot assure you that enforcement authorities will not take action against us and, if such action were successful, we could be required to pay significant fines and penalties and change our corporate practices. Such enforcement could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and to enforce our contracts with payors and others. Federal and state laws also require our pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to its customers regarding medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the pharmacists deem significant. Our pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Lastly, we are subject to federal and state regulations relating to our pharmacy operations, including purchasing, storing and dispensing of controlled substances. We believe our pharmacies are in conformity with these counseling, warning and handling of controlled substances laws; however, should a government or regulatory agency find differently, the resulting fines and penalties could negatively impact our operations. -27- Table of Contents Non-compliance with federal and state anti-kickback laws could affect our business, operations or financial condition. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among healthcare providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Similarly, many state laws prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. There is a risk that an investment in our shares or in our subsidiary sleep centers by our affiliated physicians, including the distribution of any profits to our affiliated physicians, referrals for sleep testing or treatment services by physicians who own our securities, the marketing of our affiliated physicians’ services or our compensation arrangements with our affiliated physicians may be considered a violation of these laws. Violation of these anti-kickback laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities and/or exclusion from participating in federal or state healthcare programs. If we are excluded from federal or state healthcare programs, our affiliated physicians who participate in those programs would not be permitted to continue doing business with us. We believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable laws and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. We have physicians who own non-controlling investment interests in some of our sleep diagnostic testing facilities who also have a referral relationship with our sleep testing or care management services. If the ownership distributions paid to physicians by our testing facilities are found to constitute prohibited payments made to physicians under the federal Anti-kickback Statute, physician self-referral or other fraud and abuse laws, our business may be adversely affected. Over the years, the federal government has published regulations that established “safe harbors” to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. An arrangement that meets all of the elements of the safe harbor is immunized from prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure to satisfy all elements, however, does not necessarily mean the arrangement violates the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. We endeavor to meet safe harbors designed for small entity investments and believe we are in compliance with such laws. However, if we were found to be violation of a federal or state anti-kickback statute, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be harmed and we would be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. If government laws or regulations change or the enforcement or interpretation of them change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians associated with us. Changes in government regulation or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations could obligate us to purchase at the then fair market value some or all of the ownership interests of the physicians who have invested in our sleep diagnostic facilities. Regulatory changes that could create this obligation include changes that: • make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our sleep diagnostic facilities by physicians affiliated with us, • create the substantial likelihood that cash distributions from our sleep diagnostic facilities to our physician partners will be illegal, or • make illegal the ownership by physicians of their interests in our sleep diagnostic facilities. From time to time, we may voluntarily seek to increase our ownership interest in one or more of our sleep diagnostic testing facilities, in accordance with any applicable limitations. We may seek to use shares of our common stock to purchase physicians’ ownership interests instead of cash. If the use of our stock is not permitted or attractive to us or the physicians, we may use cash or promissory notes to purchase the physicians’ ownership interests. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient for the acquisition or the use of cash may limit our ability to use our capital resources elsewhere, limiting our growth and impairing our operations. The creation of these obligations and the possible adverse effect on our affiliation with these physicians could have a material adverse effect on us. -28- Table of Contents Federal or state self-referral regulations could impact our arrangements with our affiliated physicians. The federal physician self-referral statute, known as the “Stark” statute, prohibits a physician from making a referral for certain designated health services, including DME such as CPAP devices, to any entity with which the physician has a financial relationship, unless there is an exception in the statute that allows the referral. The entity that receives a prohibited referral from a physician may not submit a bill to Medicare for that service. Many state laws prohibit physician referrals to entities in which the physician has a financial interest, or require that the physician provide the patient notice of the physician’s financial relationship before making the referral. There is a risk that an investment in our shares or in our subsidiary sleep centers by our affiliated physicians, including the distribution of any profits to our affiliated physicians, the use of our equipment by physicians who own our securities, any assistance from healthcare providers in acquiring, maintaining or operating sleep diagnostic testing equipment, the marketing of our affiliated physicians’ services or our compensation arrangements with our affiliated physicians, could be interpreted as a violation of the federal Stark statute or similar state laws, if we were to accept referrals from our affiliated physicians. Violation of the Stark statute can result in substantial civil penalties for both the referring physician and any entity that submits a claim for a healthcare service made pursuant to a prohibited referral. In addition, federal courts have ruled that violations of the Stark statute can be the basis for a legal claim under the Federal False Claims Act. We believe that all of our affiliated physician arrangements are in compliance with the Stark statute. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. Because we submit claims to the Medicare program based on the services we provide, it is possible that a lawsuit could be brought against us under the Federal False Claims Act, and the outcome of any such lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The federal False Claims Act provides, in part, that the federal government may bring a lawsuit against any person whom it believes has knowingly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or who has made a false statement or used a false record to have a claim approved. Federal courts have ruled that a violation of the anti-kickback provision of the Stark statute can serve as the basis for the federal False Claims Act suit. The federal False Claims Act further provides that a lawsuit brought under that act may be initiated in the name of the United States by an individual who was the original source of the allegations, known as the relator. Actions brought under the federal False Claims Act are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the federal government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that lawsuits have been filed against us that we are unaware of or which we have been ordered by the court not to discuss until the court lifts the seal from the case. Penalties include fines ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim, plus three times the amount of damages that the federal government sustained because of the act of the violator. We believe that we are operating in compliance with the Medicare rules and regulations and, thus, the federal False Claims Act. However, if we were found to have violated certain rules and regulations and, as a result, submitted or caused our affiliated physicians to submit allegedly false claims, any sanctions imposed under the federal False Claims Act could result in substantial fines and penalties or exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we are excluded from participation in federal or state healthcare programs, our affiliated physicians who participate in those programs could not do business with us. Federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern our activities and the activities of providers of sleep diagnostic testing and durable medical equipment. These increased enforcement activities may have a direct or indirect adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some state statutes contain prohibitions similar to and possibly even more restrictive than the federal False Claims Act. These state laws may also empower state administrators to adopt regulations restricting financial relationships or payment arrangements involving healthcare providers under which a person benefits financially by referring a patient to another person. We believe that we are operating in compliance with these laws. -29- Table of Contents However, if we are found to have violated such laws, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Future changes in healthcare regulation are difficult to predict and may constrain or require us to restructure our operations, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and subject to frequent changes in governing laws and regulations as well as to evolving administrative interpretations. Our business could be adversely affected by regulatory changes at the federal or state level that impose new requirements for licensing, new restrictions on reimbursement for medical services by government programs, new pretreatment certification requirements for patients seeking sleep testing procedures or treatment products, or new limitations on services that can be performed by us. In addition, federal, state and local legislative bodies have adopted and continue to consider medical cost-containment legislation and regulations that have restricted or may restrict reimbursement to entities providing services in the healthcare industry and referrals by physicians to entities in which the physicians have a direct or indirect financial interest or other relationship. For example, Medicare recently adopted a regulation that limits the technical component of the reimbursement for multiple diagnostic tests performed during a single session at medical facilities other than hospitals. Any of these or future reimbursement regulations or policies could limit the number of diagnostic tests ordered and could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, recently finalized certain anti-markup rules relating to diagnostic tests paid for by the Medicare program. The anti-markup rules are generally applicable where a physician or other supplier bills for the technical component or professional component of a diagnostic test that was ordered by the physician or other supplier (or ordered by a party related to such physician or other supplier through common ownership or control), and the diagnostic test is performed by a physician who does not share a practice with the billing physician or other supplier. If the anti-markup rule applies to an interpretation, then the reimbursement provided by Medicare to a billing physician or other supplier for that interpretation may be limited. Because our sleep diagnostic testing facilities bill Medicare for the technical and professional fees of sleep diagnostic tests that are ordered by community physicians or our affiliated physicians, we believe that the anti-markup rule does not apply to the professional services our affiliated physicians perform or the technical services that our sleep diagnostic testing facilities perform. However, this rule could be subject to an interpretation that affects the amounts that may be reimbursed by Medicare for professional diagnostic interpretations. Although we monitor legal and regulatory developments and modify our operations from time to time as the regulatory environment changes, we may not be able to adapt our operations to address every new regulation, and such regulations may adversely affect our business. In addition, although we believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable federal and state laws, our business operations have not been scrutinized or assessed by judicial or regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities would not result in a determination that adversely affects our operations or that the healthcare regulatory environment will not change in a way that will restrict our operations. Non-compliance with state and federal regulations concerning health information practices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operations, and the cost of compliance may be material. We collect and use information about individuals and their medical conditions. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and the Health Information Technology For Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”), govern the collection, dissemination, security, use and confidentiality of such patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA sets forth standards for electronic transactions between health plans, providers and clearinghouses; unique provider, employer, health plan and patient identifiers; security and electronic signatures as well as privacy protections relating to the exchange of individually identifiable health information. The Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) has released several rules mandating compliance with the standards set forth under HIPAA. We believe our pharmacies and sleep centers achieved compliance with DHHS’s standards governing the privacy of individually identifiable health information and DHHS’s standards governing the security of electronically stored health information. In addition, we have fully implemented the required uniform standards governing common healthcare transactions. Finally, we have taken or will take all necessary steps to achieve compliance with other -30- Table of Contents HIPAA rules as applicable, including the standard unique employer identifier rule, the standard health care provider identifier rule and the enforcement rule. While it is believed that we currently comply with HIPAA, there is some uncertainty of the extent to which the enforcement or interpretation of the HIPAA regulations will affect our business. Continuing compliance and the associated costs with these regulations may have a significant impact on our business operations. Criminal and civil sanctions may be imposed for failing to comply with HIPAA. In addition to the HIPAA restrictions relating to the exchange of healthcare information, individual states have adopted laws protecting the confidentiality of patient information which impact the manner in which pharmacy and patient records are maintained. Violation of patient confidentiality rights under common law, state or federal law could give rise to damages, penalties, civil or criminal fines and/or injunctive relief. We believe that our pharmacy operations, prescription file-buying program and sleep center operations are in compliance with federal and state privacy protections. However, an enforcement agency or court may find a violation of state or federal privacy protections arising from our pharmacy operations, prescription file-buying program or sleep center operations. The failure to comply with other provisions of HIPAA potentially could result in liability, civil and criminal penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. HIPAA authorizes the imposition of civil money penalties against entities that employ or enter into contracts with individuals or entities who have been excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs. We perform background checks on our affiliated physicians, and we do not believe that we engage or contract with any excluded individuals or entities. However, a finding that we have violated this provision of HIPAA could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. HIPAA also establishes several separate criminal penalties for making false or fraudulent claims to insurance companies and other non-governmental payors of healthcare services. These provisions are intended to punish some of the same conduct in the submission of claims to private payors as the federal False Claims Act covers in connection with governmental health programs. We believe that our services have not historically been provided in a way that would place either our clients or ourselves at risk of violating the HIPAA anti-fraud statutes, including those in which we received direct reimbursement because of the reassignment by affiliated physicians to us or those in which we may be considered to receive an indirect reimbursement because of the reassignment by us to hospitals of the right to collect for professional interpretations and technical services. We believe that our pharmacies and sleep centers have taken all appropriate steps to achieve compliance with the HIPAA requirements. We do not currently believe that the ongoing cost of compliance with the existing HIPAA requirements will be material to our operations; however, we cannot predict the cost of future compliance with HIPAA requirements. Our failure to successfully implement our growth plan may adversely affect our financial performance. Both of our operating segments (SMS and ApothecaryRx) have grown primarily through acquisitions. We intend to continue to grow incrementally through acquisitions with our current focus primarily on sleep center acquisitions. As this growth plan is pursued, we may encounter difficulties expanding and improving our operating and financial systems to maintain pace with the increased complexity of the expanded operations and management responsibilities. The success of our growth strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, including: • economic conditions; • competition; • consumer preferences and purchasing power; • the ability to attract and retain sleep technicians and pharmacists; -31- Table of Contents • financing and working capital requirements; • the ability to negotiate sleep center and store leases on favorable terms; and • the availability of new locations at a reasonable cost. Even if we succeed in acquiring established sleep centers as planned, those acquired facilities may not achieve the projected revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of currently owned sleep centers in the time periods we estimate or at all. Moreover, our newly acquired sleep centers may reduce the revenues and profitability of our existing locations and other operations. The failure of our growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We identified a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Although we have completed a remediation for the material weakness, there can be no assurance that such controls will effectively prevent material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended on December 31, 2008, we reported to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors that certain significant deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting existed at December 31, 2008 that, when evaluated in the aggregate, we concluded to be a material weakness in the design and operation of internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2008. Therefore, we have concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified as of December 31, 2008, related to the net realizable value of the accounts receivable for our SMS operating segment. Our accounts receivable are subject to an adjustment based on the difference between the allowance we recorded for expected realizable amount and the actual realized amount. In performing the 2008 fourth quarter evaluation of the net realizable value of accounts receivable, we discovered that our realizable accounts receivable, and accordingly our 2008 revenues, should have been recorded net of an additional $735,000 to more closely reflect collectability of accounts receivable and to net that amount against revenue. In addition to contractual allowance adjustment of $735,000, we recorded an additional allowance for bad debts of approximately $916,000 due to changes in the factors used to estimate the ultimate contractual allowances incurred from third-party insurance companies. During the 2009 second quarter, we completed our remediation of the accounts receivable issue by enhancing the procedures used to analyze and estimate the contractual allowances and bad debts incurred on our SMS revenue. During our remediation process, we identified new information related to the allowance for doubtful accounts that led to a change in our estimate for the allowance in the amount of approximately $2.6 million. While we believe that these new controls and processes have remediated the material weakness, there can be no assurance that such controls will effectively prevent material misstatements in the net realizable value of our accounts receivable in future periods. In addition, during the three months ended December 31, 2008, we recognized certain control and reporting material weaknesses related to our oversight of the financial reporting process in our SMS segment. The material weakness included a combination of control deficiencies we identified with respect to the audit adjustments proposed during the audit of our financial statements. None of the adjustments or control deficiencies were deemed material on an individual basis, but we deemed the control deficiencies to be material in the aggregate. The control deficiencies identified included the process to approve journal entries and the process to ensure that all accounts are reviewed and reconciled where appropriate. To remedy this material weakness, we enacted additional review and approval controls over financial reporting, including the review and approval of all significant journal entries, reconciliation of all significant -32- Table of Contents accounts. While we believe that these new controls and processes have remediated the material weakness, there can be no assurance that such controls will effectively prevent material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements in future periods. Material weaknesses in the design and operation of the internal controls over financial reporting of companies that we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. Our operating segments have primarily grown through the acquisition of existing businesses and in the future we intend to continue to grow our sleep center segment through the acquisition of existing businesses. When we acquire such existing businesses our due diligence may fail to discover defects or deficiencies in the design and operations of the internal controls over financial reporting of such companies, or defects or deficiencies in the internal controls over financial reporting may arise when we try to integrate the operations of these newly acquired businesses with our own. We can provide no assurances that we will not experience such issues in future acquisitions, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. The goodwill acquired pursuant to our acquisitions of sleep centers and pharmacies may become impaired and require a write-down and the recognition of a substantial impairment expense. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $33.6 million in goodwill that was recorded in connection with the acquisitions of our sleep centers and pharmacies during the years 2006 through 2009. We periodically evaluate whether or not to take an impairment charge on our goodwill, as required by the applicable accounting literature, and such evaluations have not resulted in an impairment charge to date. In the event that this goodwill is determined to be impaired for any reason, we will be required to write-down or reduce the value of the goodwill and recognize an impairment expense. The impairment expense may be substantial in amount and, in which case, adversely affect the results of our operations for the applicable period and may negatively affect the market value of our common stock. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us and they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. Our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock together beneficially own approximately 76% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock will have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • changes to the composition of our Board of Directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers; • proposed mergers, consolidations or other business combinations; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our shares of common stock. This concentration of ownership of shares of our common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of shares of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. The interests of our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our stock price. -33- Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, including securities of healthcare companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor perception of our business and our prospects; • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in healthcare laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or • general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of healthcare companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend solely on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our shares of common stock and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business and for general corporate purposes. In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our current credit facility with Arvest Bank restricts our ability to pay dividends, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Arvest Credit Facility.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 