Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that generally apply to all businesses also may adversely impact our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe CRE industry has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets generally.Our business and operations are currently dependent on the CRE industry generally, which in turn is dependent upon broad economic conditions in the United States, Europe, China and elsewhere. Recently, concerns over global economic conditions, energy and commodity prices, geopolitical issues, deflation, Federal Reserve short term rate decisions, foreign exchange rates, the availability and cost of credit, the sovereign debt crisis, the Chinese economy, the United States mortgage market and a potentially weakening real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile prices of oil and declining business and consumer confidence, may precipitate an economic slowdown, as well as cause extreme volatility in security prices. Global economic and political headwinds, along with global market instability and the risk of maturing commercial real estate debt that may have difficulties being refinanced, may continue to cause periodic volatility in the CRE market for some time. Adverse conditions in the CRE industry could harm our business and financial condition by, among other factors, the tightening of the credit markets, decline in the value of our real estate and continuing credit and liquidity concerns and otherwise negatively impacting our operations. Challenging economic and financial market conditions could significantly reduce the value of our investments.Challenging economic and financial market conditions may cause us to experience an increase in the number of CRE investments that result in losses, including tenant/operator defaults, a decrease in revenues and the value of our properties and delinquencies, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur substantial losses and need to establish significant provision for losses or impairment. Volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate activities. The global financial markets have experienced pervasive and fundamental disruptions. Market disruption, volatility or uncertainty could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate activities. In addition, market disruption, volatility or uncertainty may also expose us to increased litigation and shareholder activism. These conditions could materially disrupt our business, operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders. Market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings.Liquidity in the capital markets is essential to our businesses. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our business may be adversely affected by disruptions in the debt and equity capital markets and institutional lending market, including a lack of access to capital or prohibitively high costs of obtaining or replacing capital, both domestically and abroad. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including issuing common equity, perpetual preferred equity, trust preferred securities and exchangeable senior notes. We depend on external financing to fund the growth of our business mainly because one of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code for a REIT is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income to its shareholders, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. Our access to equity or debt financing depends on the willingness of third parties to make equity investments in us and provide us with debt. It also depends on conditions in the capital markets generally. Companies in the real estate industry, including us, are currently experiencing, and have at times historically experienced, limited availability of capital and new capital sources may not be available on acceptable terms. A material reduction in CMBS issuances could also significantly harm liquidity in the commercial real estate market generally and our company specifically. Regulatory changes may also reduce liquidity afforded by the CMBS market, which could also harm our business. Our ability to raise capital generally could be impaired if the capital markets have a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects or the prospects for REITs and the commercial real estate market generally. Our stock performance has recently trailed that of the corresponding index, which could exacerbate any such negative perception. We cannot assure stockholders that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, we will not be able to grow our business and may have difficulty maintaining liquidity and making distributions to stockholders, which would have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. For information about our available sources of funds, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of Part II 21Table of Contentsof this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We use significant leverage in connection with our investments, which increases the risk of loss associated with our investments and restricts our ability to engage in certain activities.As of December 31, 2015, we had $11 billion of borrowings outstanding. We may also incur additional borrowings in the future to satisfy our capital and liquidity needs. Although the use of leverage may enhance returns and increase the number of investments that we can make, it may increase our risk of loss, impact our liquidity and restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. Our substantial borrowings, among other things, may:•require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our borrowings, which will reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities;•require us to maintain minimum unrestricted cash;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•require us to post additional reserves and other additional collateral to support our financing arrangements, which could reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets;•subject us to maintaining various debt, operating income, net worth, cash flow and other covenants and financial ratios;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•restrict our operating policies and ability to make strategic acquisitions, dispositions or exploit business opportunities;•require us to maintain a borrowing base of assets;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have fewer borrowings;•put us in a position that necessitates raising equity capital at a time that is unfavorable to us and dilutive to our stockholders;•limit our ability to borrow additional funds (even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity), dispose of assets or make distributions to stockholders; and•increase our cost of capital.If we fail to comply with the covenants in the instruments governing our borrowings or do not generate sufficient cash flow to service our borrowings, our liquidity may be materially and adversely affected. If we default or fail to meet certain coverage tests, we may be required to post additional collateral or we may become subject to cash sweeps or other cash management arrangements. To the extent we seek to take certain actions prohibited by our borrowings, we may be required to repay outstanding obligations, together with penalties, prior to the stated maturity. In addition, we may not satisfy certain conditions that would permit us to exercise extension options under the instruments governing our borrowings. Further, default under certain of our borrowings may subject our assets to foreclosure and/or require us to seek protection under bankruptcy laws. We are exploring and evaluating potential avenues to monetize our assets and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, or completing, any such transaction, that any such transaction will yield additional value for us or that the process will not have an adverse impact on our business.We are exploring potential avenues to monetize certain of our assets. Substantially all of our assets are illiquid and require significant effort to monetize. In addition, the sale of certain of our assets may require the consent of third parties outside of our control, such as consents of lenders under our borrowings or general partners in connection with the sale of certain of our PE Investments. There can be no assurance that the exploration of opportunities to monetize assets within our portfolio will result in the identification or consummation of any transaction on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we expect to incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential transactions. The process of exploring such transactions may be time consuming and disruptive to our business operations and, if we are unable to effectively manage the process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that any potential transaction, if identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our stockholders than that reflected in the current price of our common stock. If we are successful in monetizing certain of our assets through a sale or otherwise, we may be unable to reinvest the proceeds on favorable terms or at all and our return on equity could be substantially lower than it has been in the past. Further, deleveraging or reducing the size of our balance sheet may reduce our earnings but will not reduce our asset management fee payable to NSAM. Any potential transaction would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other factors, market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third-parties in our business and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms.22Table of ContentsBecause real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us.Substantially all of our investments are illiquid. A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to dispose of any of our assets on acceptable terms even if a disposition is in the best interests of stockholders. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property or portfolio for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio on acceptable terms. Certain of our properties, such as our healthcare properties, are special purpose properties that cannot be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Additionally, transfers of operations of healthcare properties are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Certain properties may also be subject to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of financing that can be placed or repaid on that property. We may be required to expend cash to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold, and we cannot assure that we will have cash available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. The Internal Revenue Code also places limits on our ability to sell certain properties held for fewer than two years.We may also determine to give our tenants a right of first refusal or similar options. Similarly, borrowers under certain of our CRE debt investments may give their tenants or other persons similar rights with respect to the collateral. In addition, we own many of our investments through joint ventures and our joint venture partners may have rights that influence dispositions. Such rights could negatively affect the residual value or marketability of the property and impede our ability to sell the property or collateral.As a result, our ability to sell investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions could be limited and such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. To the extent we are unable to sell any property for its book value or at all, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our earnings. Limitations on our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Risks Related to our ManagerNSAM’s announcement that it is exploring possible strategic alternatives to maximize NSAM stockholder value, or the NSAM Process, and our announcement that our board of directors has formed a special committee to explore a potential recombination transaction with NSAM, among other things, could have an adverse impact on our business. On January 11, 2016, the board of directors of NSAM announced that it has engaged Goldman, Sachs & Co. as its financial advisor to assist it in the NSAM Process. The NSAM Process may be time consuming and disruptive to NSAM’s business operations, including its service to us as our manager. As a result of the NSAM Process, NSAM could undergo a change of control involving a third party, which could result in a change to the management of our manager and its affiliates as well as a change to the board of directors of NSAM. Consequently, we could be managed by an entity and personnel that do not have the experience and track record of NSAM and its personnel and suitable alternatives may not be available. New management and personnel could change the manner in which our manager provides services to us and may not be as effective. Any such change to NSAM could be disruptive to our business and operations and could have a material adverse effect on our performance. Further, certain corporate strategic alternatives that may be available to NSAM, including a potential recombination transaction between NSAM and us, may give rise to conflicts of interest among NSAM and us, as we are dependent upon NSAM for the management of our day-to-day affairs.On February 25, 2016, we announced that our board of directors formed a special committee to explore a potential recombination transaction with NSAM and that the special committee retained UBS Investment Bank as its financial advisor in connection therewith.The special committee’s review and consideration of a potential recombination transaction with NSAM is ongoing and we cannot assure you that, even if the special committee determines that it is in our best interests, we will be able to undertake a recombination transaction with NSAM. Further, a change of control or merger transaction could trigger certain acceleration, vesting and payment obligations with respect to our borrowings, derivative instruments and other contractual obligations, and such obligations may be substantial. We also cannot assure you that a potential recombination with NSAM, if consummated, will provide greater value to our stockholders than our current strategy.23Table of ContentsOur ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions depends in substantial part upon the performance of our manager.We rely upon NSAM to manage our day-to-day operations and our investments. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives, other than our CRE debt origination business, is dependent upon the performance of NSAM in the acquisition or disposition of investments, the determination of financing arrangements and the management of our assets and operation of our day-to-day activities under the supervision of, and subject to the policies and guidelines established by, our board of directors. If our manager performs poorly and as a result is unable to manage our investments successfully, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to stockholders at presently contemplated levels, if at all.Any adverse changes in NSAM’s financial health, the public perception of NSAM or our relationship with NSAM could hinder our operating performance and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Because NSAM is publicly-traded, any negative reaction by the stock market reflected in its stock price or deterioration in the public perception of NSAM could result in an adverse effect on its ability to manage our portfolio, including acquiring or disposing of assets and obtaining financing from third parties on favorable terms or at all. Recently, NSAM common stock has been highly volatile and NSAM is subject to an activist campaign, all of which could disrupt NSAM’s and potentially harm our business. In addition, NSAM depends upon the management and other fees and reimbursement of costs that it receives from us and NSAM’s other managed companies, including NorthStar Income, NorthStar Healthcare Income, Inc., or NorthStar Healthcare and NorthStar Real Estate Income II, Inc., or NorthStar Income II, collectively referred to as the NSAM Sponsored Companies, in connection with the acquisition, management and sale of assets to conduct its operations. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of NSAM, or our relationship with NSAM, could hinder NSAM’s ability to successfully support our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Failure of NSAM to effectively perform its obligations under the various agreements entered into with them, including the long-term management agreement, could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.We engaged NSAM to provide asset management and other services to us pursuant to a long-term management agreement. Our ability to achieve our investment and business objectives and to make distributions to stockholders will depend in substantial part upon the performance of NSAM and its ability to provide us with asset management and other services. We are also dependent on other third-party service providers to whom NSAM may delegate various responsibilities. For example, NSAM has delegated certain asset management functions related to our healthcare portfolio (other than the assets held in a joint venture with affiliates of Formation Capital, LLC, or the Formation Portfolio), subject to NSAM’s responsibility and oversight, to American Healthcare Investors, LLC, or AHI. We cannot control whether and to whom NSAM delegates certain responsibilities and we may not have any direct recourse against third-party service providers. If for any reason NSAM or any other service provider is unable to perform such services at the level we anticipate, our ability to replace NSAM or any other service providers is extremely limited under the terms of our management agreement. Even if we were able to terminate our management agreement with NSAM, alternate service providers may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our performance and materially harm our ability to execute our business plan.Our ability to terminate the management agreement with NSAM is limited.The management agreement with NSAM is only terminable by us for cause. We cannot terminate the management agreement for any other reason, including if NSAM performs poorly or is unable to manage us successfully. The term “cause” is limited to specific circumstances laid out in the management agreement. Unsatisfactory financial performance does not constitute “cause” under the management agreement. In addition, we are contractually committed to NSAM’s management for an initial term of 20 years beginning June 30, 2014, with automatic renewal terms thereafter. These provisions increase our risk that NSAM may not perform well and our business could suffer. If NSAM’s performance as our manager does not meet our or our stockholders’ expectations, and we are unable to terminate the management agreement, the market price of our common stock could suffer.NSAM’s platform may not be as scalable as we anticipate and we could face difficulties managing our business without significant new investment in personnel and infrastructure by NSAM.Our business has grown substantially over the course of the past several years, both in volume and in scope as we have invested across diverse areas, including healthcare, manufactured housing communities, hotels, private equity investments, internationally and more. This expansion has placed significant additional demands on management and other personnel, as well as our support infrastructure. While we believe NSAM’s platform for operating our business is highly scalable and can support our recent significant growth without substantial new investment in personnel, expertise and infrastructure on a relative basis, we may be wrong in that assessment. It is possible that if the business of the other companies managed by NSAM, including the NSAM Sponsored Companies, continues to grow, NSAM will need to make significant investments in personnel, infrastructure and expertise to support that growth. In addition, service providers to whom NSAM delegates certain asset management functions may also be strained by our growth, the growth of the NSAM Sponsored Companies or other businesses that these service providers support. NSAM or its service providers may be unable to make significant investments on a timely basis or at reasonable costs 24Table of Contentsand their failure in this regard could disrupt our business and operations. Further, during periods of economic retraction, NSAM or its service providers may be incented to reduce their personnel and costs, which could have an adverse effect on us.Substantially all of the fees payable to NSAM are payable regardless of the performance or size of our portfolio and may fail to appropriately incentivize NSAM when managing our portfolio.We pay NSAM an annual base management fee regardless of the performance or size of our portfolio. Consequently, we may be required to pay NSAM significant base management fees despite certain dispositions of assets, repurchases of our common stock or experiencing a net loss or a decline in the value of our portfolio. This in turn could hurt both our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.NSAM’s entitlement to compensation regardless of our performance might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking assets that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio, particularly if other management agreements to which NSAM is a party have a performance-based fee structure. In addition, NSAM has the ability to earn incentive fees each quarter based on our cash available for distribution, or CAD, which may create an incentive for NSAM to invest in assets with higher yield potential, which are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an asset prematurely for a gain and pay down borrowings, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the incentive fees to which it is entitled. Furthermore, the compensation payable to NSAM will increase as a result of future issuances of our equity securities, even if the issuances are dilutive to existing stockholders. If our interests and those of NSAM are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.The fees we pay to NSAM in connection with the origination, acquisition and management of our investments pursuant to the management agreement were not determined on an arm’s length basis; therefore, we do not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties.The fees we pay to NSAM for services it provides for us pursuant to the management agreement were negotiated when we still were under common ownership and thus not determined on an arm’s length basis. As a result, the fees were determined without the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties and may be in excess of amounts that we would otherwise pay to third parties for such services; however, the final terms of the management agreement were approved by our board of directors, including a majority of the independent members thereof.In addition to the management fees we pay to our manager, we reimburse our manager for costs and expenses incurred on our behalf, including indirect personnel and employment costs of our manager and its affiliates and these costs and expenses may be substantial.We pay our manager substantial fees for the services it provides to us and we also have an obligation to reimburse our manager for costs and expenses it incurs and pays on our behalf. Subject to certain limitations and exceptions, we reimburse our manager for both direct expenses as well as indirect costs, including personnel and employment costs of our manager. The costs and expenses our manager incurs on our behalf, including the compensatory costs incurred by our manager and its affiliates, can be substantial. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our manager allocated $10 million in costs and expenses to us. In addition, we are required to issue equity awards to NSAM employees at NSAM’s request under the terms of our management agreement. In connection with this obligation, we recorded $15 million of equity based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our manager could allocate costs and expenses to us in excess of what we anticipate and such costs and expenses could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders. If our ability to issue equity awards to employees is limited, it will require us or NSAM to award greater cash compensation in relation to previous levels of cash compensation, which will reduce our liquidity and could impact our and NSAM’s ability to retain key employees.We have historically paid a substantial portion of our overall compensation in the form of equity awards. We or NSAM may at times have limited availability under our incentive plans to issue equity awards to our and NSAM’s employees. We may seek stockholder approval for additional equity awards and there is no assurance stockholders would grant such approval. To the extent we do not have sufficient equity awards available, we or NSAM may have to compensate our or its employees in a greater proportion of cash relative to historical periods. Because CAD excludes equity-based compensation expense, payment of higher levels of cash relative to equity awards will have a negative impact on CAD and reduce our liquidity position. Additionally, the lack of availability of equity awards could impact our and NSAM’s ability to retain employees as equity awards historically have been a significant component of our long-term incentives.25Table of ContentsThere are conflicts of interest in our relationship with NSAM that could result in less attractive investment opportunities and higher fees.We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with NSAM, its affiliates, managed entities and strategic ventures. In particular, we expect to compete for investment opportunities directly with other companies and/or accounts that NSAM or its strategic or joint venture partners manage, including with respect to origination opportunities that we source and make available to NSAM pursuant to the management agreement. Certain of NSAM’s managed companies, along with companies, funds and vehicles that are subject to a strategic relationship between NSAM and its strategic or joint venture partners (which we refer to collectively as strategic vehicles) have investment mandates and objectives that target the same investments as us. In addition, NSAM may have additional managed companies or strategic vehicles that compete directly with us for investment opportunities in the future. We have adopted an investment allocation policy with NSAM that is intended to ensure that investments are allocated fairly and appropriately among us and the other NSAM managed companies or strategic vehicles over time, but there is no assurance that NSAM will be successful in eliminating the conflicts arising from the allocation of investment opportunities. When determining the entity for which an investment opportunity would be the most suitable, the factors that NSAM may consider include, among other factors, the following:•investment objectives, strategy and criteria;•cash requirements and amount of funds available;•effect of the investment on the diversification of the portfolio, including by geography, size of investment, type of investment and risk of investment;•leverage policy and the availability of financing for the investment by each entity;•anticipated cash flow of the asset to be acquired;•income tax effects of the purchase; •the size of the investment;•cost of capital;•risk return profiles; •targeted distribution rates;•anticipated future pipeline of suitable investments; •the expected holding period of the investment and the remaining term of the NSAM managed company, if applicable; •affiliate and/or related party considerations; and•whether a strategic vehicle has received a special allocation (as defined in the investment allocation policy).If, after consideration of the relevant factors, NSAM determines that an investment is equally suitable for us and one of its managed companies or strategic vehicles, the investment will be allocated among each of the applicable entities, including us, on a rotating basis. If, after an investment has been allocated to us or another entity, a subsequent event or development, such as delays in structuring or closing on the investment, makes it, in the opinion of NSAM, more appropriate for a different entity to fund the investment, NSAM may determine to place the investment with the more appropriate entity while still giving credit to the original allocation. In certain situations, NSAM may determine to allow more than one investment vehicle, including us, to co-invest in a particular investment.There is no assurance this policy will remain in place during the entire period we are seeking investment opportunities. In addition, NSAM may sponsor additional managed companies or strategic vehicles in the future and, in connection with the creation of such managed companies or strategic vehicles, may revise these allocation procedures. The result of a revision to the allocation procedures may, among other things, be to increase the number of parties who have the right to participate in investment opportunities sourced by NSAM or us, thereby reducing the number of investment opportunities available to us.In addition, under this policy, NSAM investment professionals may consider the investment objectives and anticipated pipeline of future investments of its managed companies or strategic vehicles. The decision of how any potential investment should be allocated among us and one of NSAM’s managed companies or strategic vehicles for which such investment may be suitable may, in many cases, be a matter of subjective judgment which will be made by NSAM. Pursuant to the investment allocation policy, NSAM may choose to allocate favorable investments to its other managed companies instead of to us. Our investment allocation policy with NSAM could produce unfavorable results for us that could harm our business.NSAM also has acquired and may in the future acquire additional interests in third parties, such as management firms which manage certain of our properties, which may cause its interests to differ from ours. NSAM may also encourage our use of third 26Table of Contentsparties, including those in which NSAM owns an interest, for which we pay a fee. In addition, we may enter into principal transactions with NSAM or cross-transactions with NSAM’s other managed companies or strategic vehicles. For certain cross-transactions, NSAM may receive a fee from the other managed company. There is no guaranty that any such transactions will be favorable to us. Because our interests and NSAM’s interests may not be aligned, we may face conflicts of interest that result in action or inaction that is detrimental to us.Further, there are conflicts of interest that arise when NSAM makes expense allocation determinations, as well as in connection with any fees payable between us and NSAM. These fees and allocation determinations are sometimes based on estimates or judgments, which may not be correct and could result in NSAM’s failure to allocate and pay certain fees and costs to us appropriately. Our executive officers and our manager’s professionals who perform services for us face competing demands relating to their time and conflicts of interests relating to performing services on our behalf, which may cause our operations and stockholders’ investment to suffer.We rely on NSAM’s professionals to perform services related to the operation of our business, including Messrs. Hamamoto, Tylis, Gilbert, Langer and Lieberman and Ms. Hess. Certain of these individuals are officers or directors of both NSAM and us, as well as certain other managed companies. As a result of their interests in NSAM, other managed companies and the fact that they engage in other business activities on behalf of others, NSAM’s professionals, as well as certain of our executive officers, face conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us, NSAM and other managed companies, and other business activities in which they are involved. In addition, certain management personnel performing services for NSAM, including our executive officers, own equity interests in NSAM and NSAM may grant additional equity interests in NSAM to such persons in connection with their continued services. These conflicts of interest, as well as the obligations of these individuals to other entities and investors, could result in action or inaction that is detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy, our investment opportunities and the returns on our investments. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets.Further, at times when there are turbulent conditions in the real estate markets or distress in the credit markets or other times when we will need focused support and assistance from NSAM, NSAM’s other managed companies may likewise require greater focus and attention, placing NSAM’s resources in high demand. In such situations, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we may receive if we were internally managed or if NSAM did not act as a manager for other entities.Our ability to operate our business successfully would be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us and/or NSAM.Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our key personnel, such as David T. Hamamoto, Albert Tylis, Daniel R. Gilbert, Jonathan Langer, Debra A. Hess and Ronald J. Lieberman, each of whom are co-employees of NSAM and us. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. If the management agreement with NSAM were to be terminated, we may lose the services of our executive officers and other NSAM investment professionals acting on our behalf. Furthermore, if any of our executive officers ceased to be employed by NSAM, such individual may also no longer serve as one of our executive officers. Any change in NSAM’s relationship with any of our executive officers may be disruptive to our business and hinder our ability to implement our business strategy. For instance, the extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and the nature of the relationships they have developed with real estate professionals and financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. We cannot assure stockholders of their continued employment with us or NSAM. The loss of services of certain of our executive officers could harm our business and our prospects.Both our board of directors and NSAM’s board of directors have adopted, and will likely in the future adopt, certain incentive plans to create incentives that will allow us and NSAM to retain and attract the services of key employees. These incentive plans may be tied to the performance of our common stock or NSAM’s common stock and a decline in stock price, like we have recently experienced, may result in us or NSAM being unable to motivate and retain our management and these other employees. Our inability to motivate and retain these individuals could also harm our business and our prospects. Additionally, competition for experienced real estate professionals could require NSAM or us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract qualified employees, which could result in higher compensation expenses to us.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our manager’s strategic partnerships and joint ventures.NSAM may enter into strategic partnerships and joint ventures. For example, in January 2014, NSAM entered into a partnership with James F. Flaherty III, former chairman and chief executive officer of HCP, Inc. (NYSE: HCP), focused on building a preeminent healthcare real estate business. In addition, NSAM entered into joint ventures with AHI, who manages all of our healthcare assets (other than the Formation Portfolio), and Island Hospitality Group Inc., or Island, a hospitality focused real estate management firm that currently manages 160 hotel properties, representing $4.1 billion, of which 110 hotel properties are owned by us.27Table of ContentsNSAM may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of these strategic partnerships and joint ventures. These strategic partnerships and/or joint ventures may also subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, as we may be dependent upon, and subject to, liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, control and personnel that are not under NSAM’s control. In addition, where NSAM does not have a controlling interest, such as in AHI and Island, it may not be able to take actions which are in our best interests due to a lack of full control. Furthermore, to the extent that NSAM’s partners provide services to us, such as with AHI, Island and Mr. Flaherty, certain conflicts of interests will exist. Moreover, disagreements or disputes between NSAM and its partners could result in litigation, which could potentially distract NSAM from our business.Certain of our strategic partners and joint ventures may have overlapping interests. For example, Mr. Flaherty also acquired an interest in AHI. Any such overlapping interests may exacerbate potential conflicts or disputes.NSAM manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board of directors does not approve each investment and financing decision made by NSAM unless required by our investment guidelines.NSAM is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines established by our board of directors. Our board of directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our portfolio of assets but does not, and is not required to, review all of our proposed investments, except in limited circumstances as set forth in our investment guidelines. Our board of directors may also make modifications to our investment guidelines from time to time as it deems appropriate. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews or modifying our investment guidelines, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by NSAM. Furthermore, transactions entered into by NSAM on our behalf may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of directors. NSAM has flexibility within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types and amounts of assets in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, or may otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders.NSAM’s liability is limited under the management agreement and we have agreed to indemnify NSAM against all liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the NSAM Spin-off.In connection with the NSAM Spin-off, we entered into the management agreement and various other agreements with NSAM. These agreements govern our relationship with NSAM and also provide that all liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the NSAM Spin-off remain with us. NSAM maintains a fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the management agreement, and subject to applicable law, NSAM, its directors, officers, employees, partners, managers, members, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with NSAM are not liable to us or our subsidiaries for acts taken or omitted to be taken in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except those resulting from acts of willful misfeasance or bad faith in the performance of NSAM’s duties under the management agreement. In addition, subject to applicable law, we agreed to indemnify NSAM and each of its directors, officers, employees, partners, managers, members, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with NSAM from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with NSAM’s performance of its duties or obligations under the management agreement or otherwise as our manager, except where attributable to acts of willful misfeasance or bad faith in the performance of NSAM’s duties under the management agreement. If we are required to indemnify NSAM, the costs could be substantial.NSAM is subject to extensive regulation, including as an investment adviser in the United States, as a fund services business in the Bailiwick of Jersey and under the Business Investment Act in Bermuda, which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.Certain of NSAM’s affiliates, including our manager, are subject to regulation as investment advisers and/or fund managers by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting the interests of NSAM’s managed companies, including us. Instances of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the investment management industry and disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry have led the U.S. government and regulators in foreign jurisdictions to consider increasing the rules and regulations governing, and oversight of, the financial system. This activity is expected to result in continued changes to the laws and regulations governing the investment management industry and more aggressive enforcement of the existing laws and regulations. NSAM could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanction, including revocation of its registration as an investment adviser in the United States or its registration in the Bailiwick of Jersey or Bermuda, revocation of the licenses of its employees, censures, fines or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business if it is found to have violated any of these laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.NSAM must continually address conflicts between its interests and those of its managed companies, including us. In addition, the SEC, the Jersey Financial Services Commission, the Bermuda Monetary Authority and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and if NSAM fails, or appears to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, it could face litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.28Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our InvestmentsGeneralOur CRE equity, debt and mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with CRE.Our CRE equity, debt and securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with real estate, including:•local, state, national or international economic conditions;•real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in an area;•lack of liquidity inherent in the nature of the asset;•tenant/operator mix and the success of the tenant/operator business;•the ability and willingness of tenants/operators/managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity to satisfy their obligations to us and to third parties; •reliance on tenants/operators/managers to operate their business in a sufficient manner and in compliance with their contractual arrangements with us;•ability and cost to replace a tenant/operator/manager upon default;•property management decisions;•property location and conditions;•property operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes and maintenance costs;•the perceptions of the quality, convenience, attractiveness and safety of the properties;•branding, marketing and operational strategies; •competition from comparable properties;•the occupancy rate of, and the rental rates charged at, the properties;•the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent;•the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies;•the expense of leasing, renovation or construction;•changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage financing;•unknown liens being placed on the properties;•bad acts of third parties;•the ability to refinance mortgage notes payable related to the real estate on favorable terms, if at all;•changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies;•tax implications; •changes in laws, including laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged;•the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, including costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions affecting properties;•cost of compliance with the ADA; •adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies;•social unrest and civil disturbances;•acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters;•terrorism;•the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;•adverse changes in state and local laws, including zoning laws; and•other factors which are beyond our control.29Table of ContentsThe value of each property is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the property. Many expenses associated with properties (such as operating expenses and capital expenses) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the value and the return that we can realize from our assets, as well as ability of our borrowers to pay their loans and the ability of the borrowers on the underlying loans securing our securities to pay their loans.A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could harm our investments.Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to financial losses and a decrease in revenues, earnings and assets. An economic slowdown or recession, in addition to other non-economic factors such as an excess supply of properties, could have a material negative impact on the values of our investments. Declining real estate values will reduce the value of our properties, as well as our ability to refinance our properties and use the value of our existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Slower than expected economic growth pressured by a strained labor market, along with overall financial uncertainty, could result in lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across many property types and may create obstacles for us to achieve our business plans. We may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our borrowings, which could cause us to lose title to properties securing our borrowings. Our CRE debt investments would be similarly impacted. Our level of new loan originations would also likely decline. In addition, borrowers may be less likely to achieve their business plans and less able to pay principal and interest on our CRE debt investments. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our debt investments in the event of a default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, taking title to collateral or losses could adversely affect both our CRE investments as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We have in the past and expect to continue to make opportunistic investments that may involve asset classes and structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss.We have in the past and may in the future also determine to invest in asset classes with which we have limited or no prior experience. When investing in asset classes with which we have limited or no prior experience, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts. We may also be unsuccessful in preserving value, especially if conditions deteriorate, and we may expose ourselves to unknown substantial risks. Furthermore, these assets could require additional management time and attention relative to assets with which we are more familiar. All of these factors increase our risk of loss.We are subject to significant competition and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments.We are subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly-traded REITs, non-traded REITs, insurance companies, commercial and investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors. We have observed increased competition in 2014 and 2015 during periods when we grew our balance sheet substantially. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. If we pay higher prices for investments or originate loans on less advantageous terms to us, our returns may be lower and the value of our assets may not increase or may decrease significantly below the amount we paid for such assets. As we reinvest capital, we may not realize risk adjusted returns that are as attractive as those we have realized in the past. If such events occur, we may experience lower returns on our investments.We have no established investment criteria limiting the geographic concentration or investment type of our investments. If our investments are concentrated in a particular region or asset class that experiences adverse economic conditions, our investments may lose value and we may experience losses.Our properties may be concentrated in a geographic location or in a particular asset class. These current and future investments carry the risks associated with significant geographical concentration. We have not established and do not plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. As a result, our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas or asset classes and we may experience losses as a result. A worsening of economic conditions, a natural disaster or civil disruptions in a geographic area in which our investments may be concentrated, or economic upheaval with respect to a particular asset class, could have an adverse effect on our business, including impairing the value of our properties, which in turn may limit our ability to make required payments under our financings or refinance such borrowings.Our joint venture partners could take actions that decrease the value of an investment to us and lower our overall return.We currently have, and may in the future enter into, joint ventures with third parties to make investments. We may also make investments in partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements or participations. For example, we currently have joint ventures with Chatham Lodging Trust with respect to hotel portfolios, RHP Properties with respect to all of our manufactured housing communities, Formation Capital and NorthStar Healthcare, with respect to the Formation Portfolio and NorthStar Healthcare with 30Table of Contentsrespect to the Griffin-American Portfolio and Senior Housing Portfolio. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment, including, for example, the following risks:•our joint venture partner in an investment could become insolvent or bankrupt;•fraud or other misconduct by our joint venture partners;•we may share decision-making authority with our joint venture partner regarding certain major decisions affecting the ownership of the joint venture and the joint venture property, such as the sale of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partner;•such joint venture partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become in conflict with our business interests or goals, including for example the operation of the properties; •such joint venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; •our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes and this could create conflicts of interest and risk to our REIT status; •we may rely upon our joint venture partners to manage the day-to-day operations of the joint venture and underlying assets, as well as to prepare financial information for the joint venture and any failure to perform these obligations may have a negative impact our performance and results of operations; •our joint venture partner may experience a change of control, which could result in new management of our joint venture partner with less experience or conflicting interests to ours and be disruptive to our business; •our joint venture partners may not have sufficient personnel or appropriate levels of expertise to adequately support our initiatives; and•the terms of our joint ventures could restrict our ability to sell or transfer our interest to a third party when we desire on advantageous terms, which could result in reduced liquidity.Any of the above might subject us to liabilities and thus reduce our returns on our investment with that joint venture partner. In addition, disagreements or disputes between us and our joint venture partner could result in litigation, which could increase our expenses and potentially limit the time and effort our officers and directors are able to devote to our business.Further, in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it.We are subject to risks associated with capital expenditure obligations, such as declining real estate values and operating performance.We are required to fund capital expenditures and other significant expenses for our real estate property investments. Future funding obligations subject us to significant risks, such as a decline in value of the property, cost overruns and the tenant/operator being unable to generate enough cash flow and execute its business plan in order to pay its obligations to us. We may determine that we need to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to maximize the value of our investment even though there is no assurance additional funding would be the best course of action. Further, future funding obligations may require us to maintain higher liquidity than we might otherwise maintain and this could reduce the overall return on our investments. We could also find ourselves in a position with insufficient liquidity to fund future obligations.We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property, which will increase the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property or rental income from the property which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The seller of a property often sells such property in an “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, the related real estate purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. Despite our efforts, we may fail to uncover all material risks during our diligence process. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, as well as the loss of rental income from that property if an issue should arise that decreases the value of that property and is not covered by the limited warranties. If any of these results occur, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.31Table of ContentsWe may be required to indemnify purchasers of our assets against certain liabilities and obligations, which may affect our returns on dispositions.We may be required to enter into real estate purchase and sale agreements with extensive warranties, representations and indemnifications, which may expose us to liabilities and obligations following dispositions of our assets. Despite our efforts, we may fail to identify all liabilities, which may materially impair the anticipated returns on any dispositions. Further, we may be forced to incur unexpected significant expense in connection with such liabilities and obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholdersThe price we pay for acquisitions of real property and the terms of our CRE debt investments will be based on our projections of market demand, occupancy and rental income, as well as on market factors, and our return on our investment may be lower than expected if any of our projections are inaccurate.The price we pay for real property investments and the terms of our debt investments will be based on our projections of market demand, occupancy levels, rental income, the costs of any development, redevelopment or renovation of a property, borrower expertise and other factors. In addition, increased competition in the real estate market may drive up prices for real estate assets or make loan origination terms less favorable to us. If any of our projections are inaccurate or we ascribe a higher value to assets and their value subsequently drops or fails to rise because of market factors, returns on our investment may be lower than expected and we could experience losses. This may be particularly pronounced during periods of market dislocation.Our lease or management transactions may not result in market rates over time.We expect substantially all of our rental and fee income to come from lease or management transactions, which may have longer terms than standard arrangements or renewal options that specify maximum rate increases. If we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rates, rental and fee increases under the terms may fail to result in fair market rates over time. Further, we may have no ability to terminate our lease or management transactions or adjust the rent and fees to then-prevailing market rates. For example, our triple net leases in connection with the properties acquired in the Griffin-American merger contain rent escalation provisions, which may not reflect market rates over time. As a result, our income and distributions to stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not enter into such lease or management agreements.A significant portion of our leases may expire in the same year.A significant portion of the leases for our real estate investments may expire in the same year. For certain of our properties, such as manufactured housing and multifamily leases are short term in nature and therefore subject to heightened lease turnover risk. Additionally, for certain of our properties which are primarily leased to one tenant/operator, such as our net lease and certain healthcare properties, lease expirations may coincide with the maturities on the borrowing for such properties subject to such leases. As a result, we could be subject to a sudden and material change in value of our portfolio and available cash flow from such investments in the event that these leases are not renewed or in the event that we are not able to extend or refinance the mortgage notes payable on the properties that are subject to these leases.We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us or the properties underlying CRE debt investments on favorable terms, or at all.The ability to relet or renew leases underlying our investments may be negatively impacted by challenging economic conditions in general or challenging market conditions in a particular region or asset class. For example, upon expiration or earlier termination of leases for space located at our properties, the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants/operators) may be less favorable than current lease terms. We may be receiving above market rental rates which will decrease upon renewal, which will adversely impact our income and could harm our ability to service our debt and operate successfully. Weak economic conditions would likely reduce tenants’/operators’ ability to make rent payments in accordance with the contractual terms of their leases and lead to early termination of leases. Furthermore, commercial space needs may contract, resulting in lower lease renewal rates and longer releasing periods when leases are not renewed. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. Additionally, to the extent that market rental rates are reduced, property-level cash flow would likely be negatively affected as existing leases renew at lower rates. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the space at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate cash distributions to stockholders.Many of our investments are dependent upon tenants/operators successfully operating their businesses and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We depend on our tenants/operators to manage the day-to-day operations of our real estate properties in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance 32Table of Contentscoverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties under their operational control in a manner that does not jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status. The ability of our tenants/operators to fulfill their obligations to us may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations, including any other facilities, properties or businesses they may acquire or operate. The cash flow generated by the operation of our properties may not be sufficient for a tenant/operator to meet its obligations to us. In several cases, a single operator operates several of our properties and the failure of one operator could materially adversely affect many properties. Tenants/operators who are having trouble with their cash flow are more likely to expose us to unknown liens and other risks to our assets. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our real estate borrowings could be limited if our tenants/operators are unable to meet their obligations to us or we fail to renew or extend our contractual relationship with any of our tenants/operators. In addition, to the extent we seek to replace a tenant/operator following a default, we may incur substantial delays and expense as a result of licensing, change-of-ownership or similar rules or other third party consents. Further, we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations to preserve the value of our properties while they are being transitioned, as well as incur additional liabilities to indemnify the replacement tenant/operator. Once a suitable replacement tenant/operator has taken over operation of the properties, it may still take an extended period of time before the properties are fully repositioned and value restored, if at all. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We are responsible for certain capital improvements. To the extent such capital improvements are not undertaken, the ability of our tenants/operators to manage our properties effectively and on favorable terms may be affected, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We are responsible for certain capital improvements. To the extent capital improvements are not undertaken or are deferred, occupancy rates and the amount of rental and reimbursement income generated by the facility may decline, which would negatively impact the overall value of the affected facility. This risk may be heightened during periods of economic distress. We may be forced to incur unexpected significant expense to maintain our properties, even those that are net leased. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Lease defaults, terminations or landlord-tenant/operator disputes may reduce our income from our real estate investments.The creditworthiness of our tenants/operators in our real estate investments has been, or could become, negatively impacted as a result of challenging economic conditions or otherwise, which could result in their inability to meet the terms of their leases. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more tenants/operators may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant/operator is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant/operator that result in the tenant/operator withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant/operator. Upon a lease default, we may have limited remedies, be unable to accelerate lease payments and have limited or no recourse against a guarantor. Tenants/operators as well as guarantors may have limited or no ability to satisfy any judgments we may obtain. We may also have duties to mitigate our losses and we may not be successful in that regard. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If this occurred, it could adversely affect our results of operations.The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of any of our tenants/operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new tenants/operators.Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major tenants/operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major tenants/operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire.We are exposed to the risk that our tenants/operators may not be able to meet their obligations to us or other third parties, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans permit us to evict a tenant/operator, demand immediate repayment and pursue other remedies, bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant/operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant/operator’s bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs.Bankruptcy laws provide that a debtor has the option to assume or reject an unexpired lease within a certain period of time of filing for bankruptcy, but generally requires such assumption or rejection to be made in its entirety. Thus, a debtor cannot choose to keep the beneficial provisions of a contract while rejecting the burdensome ones; the contract must be assumed or rejected as a whole. For example, many of our healthcare properties are currently net leased to an operator operating multiple facilities, some of which are pursuant to a single master lease. If one or more of our healthcare property operators files for bankruptcy relief, it is possible that in bankruptcy the debtor may be required to assume or reject the master lease in its entirety, rather than making the decision on a property-by-property basis, thereby preventing the debtor from assuming the better performing properties and 33Table of Contentsterminating the master lease with respect to the poorer performing properties. However, where under applicable law a contract (even though it is contained in a single document) is determined to be divisible or severable into different agreements, or similarly, where a collection of documents is determined to constitute separate agreements instead of a single, integrated contract, then in those circumstances a debtor/trustee may be allowed to assume some of the divisible or separate agreements while rejecting the others. If the debtor has the ability, and chooses, to assume some of the divisible agreement while rejecting the other divisible agreements, or if a non-debtor tenant is unable to comply with the terms of an agreement, we may be forced to modify the agreements in ways that are unfavorable to us.Both our tenants/operators’ and borrowers’ forms of entities may cause special risks or hinder our recovery.Most of our tenants/operators in the real estate that we own, as well as the borrowers for our CRE debt investments and borrowers underlying our CRE securities, are legal entities rather than individuals. In addition, these entities are often “special purpose entities” that do not have significant assets beyond those involved in our investment and, at times, the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to recover our investment or damages. As a result, our risk of loss may be greater than for leases with or originators of loans made to individuals or special purpose entities. Unlike individuals involved in bankruptcies, these legal entities will generally not have personal assets and creditworthiness at stake. As a result, the default or bankruptcy of one of our tenants/operators or borrowers, or a general partner or managing member of that tenant or borrower, may impair our ability to enforce our rights and remedies under the terms of the lease agreement or the related mortgage, respectively.Insurance may not cover all potential losses on CRE investments, which may impair the value of our assets.We generally require that our tenants/operators, as well as the borrowers under our CRE debt investments, obtain comprehensive insurance covering the property, including liability, fire and extended coverage. We also generally obtain insurance directly on any property we acquire. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. We may not obtain, or require tenants/operators or borrowers to obtain, certain types of insurance if it is deemed commercially unreasonable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds, if any, might not be adequate to restore the economic value of the property, which might decrease the value of the property and in turn impair our investment.We are subject to additional risks due to our international investments.We own approximately $485 million (at cost) of healthcare real estate in the United Kingdom as of December 31, 2015. Our international investments may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located and these laws may expose us to risks that are different from and/or in addition to those commonly found in the United States. We and NSAM may not be as familiar with the potential risks to our investments outside of the United States and we may incur losses as a result. These risks include:•laws, rules and policies, including laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property or mortgages and laws relating to the ability of foreign persons or corporations to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person's or corporation's country of origin; •translation and transaction risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•adverse market conditions caused by inflation or other changes in national or local political and economic conditions; •challenges of complying with foreign laws, including corporate governance, operations, taxes and litigation;•changes in relative interest rates; •the potential for significant U.S. tax liability upon repatriation of profits earned in foreign jurisdictions, which could result in us keeping such earnings in foreign jurisdictions, thereby limiting our liquidity;•changes in the availability, cost and terms of borrowings resulting from varying national economic policies; •changes in real estate and other tax rates, the tax treatment of transaction structures and other changes in operating expenses in a particular country where we have an investment; •our REIT tax status not being respected under foreign laws, in which case any income or gains from foreign sources would likely be subject to foreign taxes, withholding taxes, transfer taxes and value added taxes; •lack of uniform accounting standards (including availability of information in accordance with U.S. GAAP); •changes in land use and zoning laws; •more stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws; 34Table of Contents•changes in the social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting a country where we have an investment; •changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations; and•legal and logistical barriers to enforcing our contractual rights in other countries, including insolvency regimes, landlord/tenant rights and ability to take possession of the collateral. Each of these risks might adversely affect our performance and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders required to maintain our REIT qualification. Compliance with the ADA, Fair Housing Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us or our tenants/operators to make unanticipated expenditures which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our properties are required to comply with the ADA, which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. We must also comply with the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits us and our tenants/operators from discriminating against individuals on certain bases in any of our practices if it would cause such individuals to face barriers in gaining residency in any of our facilities. In addition, our properties are required to operate in compliance with applicable fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations and licensing or certification requirements as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies from time-to-time. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with those requirements. Changes in labor and other laws could also negatively impact us, our borrowers and our tenants/operators. For example, changes to labor-related statutes or regulations could significantly impact the cost of labor in the workforce, which would increase the costs faced by our borrowers and tenants/operators and increase their likelihood of default.Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our properties or our real estate-related investments may materially impair the value of our investments and expose us to liability.Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, such as us and our tenants/operators, may be liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of, or related releases of, certain hazardous or toxic substances, including materials containing asbestos, at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances, including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances and liability may be imposed on the owner in connection with the activities of a tenant/operator at the property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our or our tenants’/operators’ ability to sell or lease real estate, or to borrow using the real estate as collateral, which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. We, or our tenants/operators, as owner or operator of a site, may be liable under common law or otherwise to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and our or our tenants’/operators’ liability could significantly exceed the value of the property without any limits.The scope of the indemnification our tenants/operators have agreed to provide us may be limited. For instance, some of our agreements with our tenants/operators do not require them to indemnify us for environmental liabilities arising before the tenant/operator took possession of the premises. Further, we cannot assure stockholders that any such tenant/operator would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. If we were deemed liable for any such environmental liabilities and were unable to seek recovery against our tenant/operator, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Furthermore, we may invest in mortgage loans secured by real estate with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate and the loan. Even as a lender, if we take title to collateral with environmental problems or if other circumstances arise, we could be subject to environmental liability. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment.Risks Related to Our Investments in Healthcare AssetsAs of December 31, 2015, approximately 50.6% of our real estate investments are concentrated in healthcare properties, which increases the risks related to owning healthcare real estate properties becoming more material to our business and results of operations.We have significantly increased our ownership of healthcare real estate properties in our portfolio over recent years, which represent 50.6% of our real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2015 (based on cost). As a result of this increase in the concentration of healthcare real estate properties, our exposure to the risks inherent in investments in the healthcare sector has also increased, making us more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the healthcare sector. We cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the healthcare industry, nor can we be certain that our tenants, operators and 35Table of Contentsmanagers will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us. Any adverse changes in the regulation of the healthcare industry or the competitiveness of our tenants, operators and managers could have a more pronounced effect on us than if our investments were more diversified.We do not control the operations of our healthcare properties and we are dependent on the tenants/operators/managers of our healthcare properties.Our senior housing properties are typically operated by healthcare operators pursuant to net leases or by an independent third-party manager pursuant to management agreements. As a result, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our healthcare properties. While we have various rights as the property owner under our leases or management agreements and monitor the tenants/operators/managers’ performance, we have limited recourse under our leases or management agreements if we believe that the tenants/operators/managers are not performing adequately. Failure by tenants/operators/managers to adequately manage the risks associated with operations of healthcare properties could affect adversely our results of operations. Furthermore, if our tenants/operators/managers experience any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could indirectly have a materially adverse effect on us.In addition, certain of our tenants/operators/managers may operate or manage facilities for our competitors, which may cause conflicts of interests that result in actions or inaction that is detrimental to us. Furthermore, NSAM, AHI and our joint venture partners, all of whom assist in asset managing our healthcare properties, may also asset manage, or have other interests in, healthcare properties on behalf of other companies, which could result in additional conflicts of interest. We are directly exposed to operational risks at certain of our healthcare properties, which could adversely affect our revenue and operations.As of December 31, 2015, we operated 112 properties pursuant to management agreements, whereby we or our joint venture partner is the licensed operator of the property, if applicable, and we have direct exposure to resident fee income and related operating expenses. As a result, by contrast to our net lease properties, we are directly exposed to various operational risks with respect to these healthcare properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks include: (i) fluctuations in occupancy, government and other third-party reimbursement, private pay rates; (ii) economic conditions; (iii) competition; (iv) federal, state, local and industry-regulated CON, licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; (v) the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; (vi) state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and (vii) the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We rely on our managers’ personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our senior housing facilities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on our managers to set appropriate resident fees and to otherwise operate our senior housing facilities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. Although we have various rights under our management agreements, including various rights to terminate and exercise remedies under those agreements, our managers’ failure, inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under those agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties or to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, significant changes in our managers’ senior management or equity ownership or any adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a material adverse effect on us. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect it to become more competitive.We own and manage a diversified portfolio of healthcare properties. Our tenants, operators and managers may encounter increased competition for residents and patients, including with respect to the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price and location. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the assisted living, independent living, and medical office building segments of the healthcare industry are not substantial, although there are often regulatory barriers to the development of hospitals and skilled nursing facilities. Limited barriers to entry in the senior housing and MOB industries could lead to the development of new senior housing communities or MOBs that outpaces demand. If development outpaces demand for those assets in the markets in which our properties are located, those markets may become saturated and we could experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability. Consequently, our tenants and operators may encounter increased competition which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.36Table of ContentsHealthcare laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and the failure of our tenants, operators or managers to comply with these laws and regulations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our tenants, operators and managers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes. The ultimate timing or effect of any changes in these laws and regulations cannot be predicted. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our tenants, operators or managers to satisfy their obligations to us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, failure to comply with the laws, requirements and regulations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Failure to comply with certain healthcare laws and regulations could adversely affect the operations of our operators, tenants and managers, which could jeopardize our operators’, tenants’ and managers’ abilities to meet their obligations to us.Our operators, tenants and managers generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated CON, licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. Our operators’, tenants’ or managers’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, penalties or damages, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.Certain healthcare laws include criminal and civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Investigation by a federal or state governmental body for violation of fraud and abuse laws or imposition of penalties with respect to any of our tenants, operators or managers could result in a failure to meet its obligations to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute.Our operators who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See “Governmental Regulation-Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. If any of these lawsuits were brought against our operators, such suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and on their ability to satisfy their obligations under our leases, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us.Our tenants, operators and managers are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our tenants, operators and managers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time.Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us.Certain of our tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues. Federal and state legislators and regulators have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers and budget crises and financial shortfalls have caused states to implement or consider Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. See “Governmental Regulation-Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Private third-party payors also have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that our tenants and operators who currently depend on governmental or private payor reimbursement will be adequately reimbursed for the services they provide. Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and fees, whether from legislation, administrative actions or private payor efforts, could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants 37Table of Contentsand operators, which could affect adversely their ability to comply with the terms of our leases and have a material adverse effect on us.License and Certificate of Need requirements affect our current operators and may delay our ability to replace an operator.Many of our properties may require a license, registration and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license, registration or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment and the construction or renovation of healthcare facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval from a state agency. If we need to replace an operator, compliance with licensure and CON laws may delay the process. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.Economic downturns, weakness in the housing and equity markets, lowered consumer confidence and other events could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford the entrance fees or monthly resident fees for our healthcare facilities and, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Costs to seniors associated with independent and assisted living services are generally not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our facilities are located typically will be able to afford to pay the entrance fees and monthly resident fees. Economic downturns, softness in the housing market, lower levels of consumer confidence, reductions or declining growth of government entitlement programs (such as social security benefits), stock market volatility, changes in demographics and other events could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford the entrance fees or monthly resident fees for our healthcare facilities. If our operators are unable to retain and attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services and other services provided by our operators at our healthcare facilities, our occupancy rates could decline, which could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare properties, we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Healthcare properties are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times operator-specific. A new or replacement operator may require different features in a property, depending on that operator’s particular operations. If a current operator is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial costs to modify a property for a new operator, or for multiple operators with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to release the space. Consequently, our healthcare properties may not be suitable for lease to other operators or for alternative uses without significant costs or renovations, which costs may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.If our tenants, operators or managers fail to maintain a positive reputation and cultivate new or maintain existing relationships with residents in the markets in which they operate, the occupancy percentage, payor mix and resident rates may deteriorate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The ability of our tenants, operators and managers to obtain and maintain the overall occupancy percentage, payor mix and resident rates at our healthcare facilities depends on our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ reputation in the communities they serve and their ability to successfully market our facilities to potential residents. A large part of our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ marketing and sales effort is directed towards cultivating and maintaining legally compliant relationships with key community organizations that work with seniors, physicians and other healthcare providers in the communities where our facilities are located, whose referral practices significantly affect the choices seniors make with respect to their long-term care needs. If our tenants, operators and managers are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these community organizations, physicians and other healthcare providers, occupancy rates at our facilities could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our tenants, operators and managers may mismanage our healthcare facilities, be subjected to governmental intervention, including shutting down of the facilities and be the subject of negative public news articles and other adverse attention. In such a case, our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ ability to continue functioning would be in severe jeopardy and our ability to realize value on our underlying assets could be materially adversely affected.38Table of ContentsThe hospitals on or near whose campuses many of our MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs.Our MOB operations depend on the competitiveness and financial viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients to our MOBs. The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition for patients, physicians and physician groups, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential. Because we rely on proximity to and affiliations with hospitals to create leasing demand in our MOBs, a hospital’s inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could materially adversely affect our MOB operations and have a material adverse effect on us.We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients.The success of our MOB operations depends, to a large extent, on past, current and future relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems. Significant amounts of time are spent in developing relationships with both new and existing clients. If NSAM or AHI fails to maintain these relationships, including through a lack of responsiveness, failure to adapt to the current market and employment of individuals with adequate experience, our reputation and relationships will be harmed and we may lose business to competitors. If our relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems deteriorate, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, it may have a material adverse effect on us.Risks Related to Our Hotel AssetsAs of December 31, 2015, approximately 26.0% of our real estate investments are concentrated in hotels, which increases our exposure to risks affecting the lodging industry.We have significantly increased our ownership of hotel properties in our portfolio, which represent 26.0% of our real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2015 (based on cost). The lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as well as other factors. The performance of the lodging industry has traditionally been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in gross domestic product. Changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers, particularly during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. The majority of our hotels are classified as upscale extended stay and select service and generally target business travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. Our results of operations and any forecast we make may be affected by, and can change based on, a variety of circumstances that affect the lodging industry, including:•changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate;•changes in business and leisure travel patterns;•increases in energy prices or airline fares or terrorist incidents, which impact the propensity of people to travel and revenues from our lodging facilities because operating costs cannot be adjusted as quickly;•supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties;•the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels;•the performance of the managers of our hotels;•outbreaks of disease and the impact on travel of natural disasters and weather;•physical damage to our hotels as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters or the income lost as a result of the damage;•changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation, labor costs and other factors; and•unionization of the labor force at our hotels.A reduction in our revenue or earnings as a result of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements.We do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels.To maintain our status as a REIT, we are not permitted to operate any of our hotels. As a result, we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. For this reason, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, repositioning of a hotel, food and beverage pricing and certain similar matters. Although we consult with our hotel 39Table of Contentsoperators with respect to strategic business plans, the hotel operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to these matters. While we monitor the hotel managers’ performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. The cash flow from our hotels may be affected adversely if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. Because our management agreements are long term agreements, we also may not be able to terminate these agreements if we believe the manager is not performing adequately.From time to time, we may have differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. If we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. Failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements or the failure of our managers to adequately manage the risks associated with hotel operations, including cyber-security risks, could affect adversely our results of operations.In addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest.As of December 31, 2015, Island currently manages 110 of our hotels pursuant to management agreements. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on Island’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our hotel operations efficiently and effectively. Any adverse developments in Island’s business and affairs or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively and could have a materially adverse effect on us. We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly at those hotels with unionized labor. From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. We also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes involving our third-party managers and their labor force or other events. The resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, a significant component of our hotel operating costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. As we are not the employer nor bound by any collective bargaining agreement, we do not negotiate with any labor organization, and it is the responsibility of each property’s manager to enter into such labor contracts. Our ability, if any, to have any material impact on the outcome of these negotiations is restricted by and dependent on the individual management agreement covering a specific property and we may have little ability to control the outcome of these negotiations.In addition, changes in labor laws may negatively impact us. For example, increases in minimum wage laws and the U.S. Department of Labor’s proposed regulations expanding the scope of non-exempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act to increase the entitlement to overtime pay could significantly increase the cost of labor in the workforce, which would increase the operating costs of our hotel properties and may have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to risks associated with our ongoing need for renovations and capital improvements as well as financing these expenditures.In order to remain competitive, our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. These capital improvements may give rise to the following risks:•construction cost overruns and delays;•a possible shortage of liquidity to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms;•the renovation investment failing to produce the returns on investment that we expect;•disruptions in the operations of the hotel as well as in demand for the hotel while capital improvements are underway; and•disputes with franchisors or hotel managers regarding compliance with relevant management or franchise agreements.We may have insufficient liquidity to fund capital expenditures and, consequently, we may need to rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund our investments and capital improvements. These sources of funds may not be available on reasonable terms and conditions or at all.40Table of ContentsRisks of operating hotels under franchise licenses, which may be terminated or not renewed, may impact our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The continuation of our franchise licenses is subject to specified operating standards and other terms and conditions. All of the franchisors of our hotels periodically inspect our hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards. The failure to maintain such standards or to adhere to such other terms and conditions could result in the loss or cancellation of the applicable franchise license. It is possible that a franchisor could condition the continuation of a franchise license on the completion of capital improvements that we determine are too expensive or otherwise not economically feasible in light of general economic conditions, the operating results or prospects of the affected hotel. In that event, we may elect to allow the franchise license to lapse or be terminated. There can be no assurance that a franchisor will renew a franchise license at each option period. If a franchisor terminates a franchise license, we may be unable to obtain a suitable replacement franchise, or to successfully operate the hotel independent of a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could have a material adverse effect upon the operations or the underlying value of the related hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. Our loss of a franchise license for one or more of the hotels could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our amounts available for distribution to shareholders.Risks Relating to Our PE InvestmentsWe have significant investments in real estate private equity funds and there is no assurance these investments will achieve the returns expected upon initial execution of the respective investments.As of December 31, 2015, $1.1 billion of our assets were invested in PE Investments. In February 2016, we sold substantially all of our interest in one PE Investment for proceeds of $184 million and are exploring the sale of our remaining PE Investments. PE Investments are generally illiquid and may require the consent of each applicable portfolio fund manager as a condition to a sale. As a result, we may be unable to sell and monetize our PE Investments prior to the winding up of the underlying portfolio funds. If we do sell PE Investments before maturity, we may not achieve the anticipated returns we initially expected. We may also determine to continue to guarantee deferred purchase price in connection with any sale for a period of time or indefinitely.The success of our PE Investments in general is subject to a variety of risks, including, without limitation, risks related to: (i) the quality of the management of the portfolio funds in which we invest and the ability of such management to successfully select investment opportunities; (ii) general economic conditions; and (iii) the ability of the portfolio funds and, if applicable, us, to liquidate investments on favorable terms or at all. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, the possibility that: (a) the stated NAV does not necessarily reflect the fair value of the fund interests on such date and the current fair value could be materially different; (b) the actual amount of future capital commitments underlying all of the fund interests that will be called and funded by us could vary materially from our expectations; and (c) because, among other matters, the sponsors of the private equity funds, rather than us, will control the investments in those funds, we could lose some or all of our investment. Furthermore, the timing in which we will realize proceeds, if any, could differ materially from expectations and our actual yield could be substantially lower than our assumed yield. There can be no assurance that the management team of a portfolio fund or any successor will be able to operate the portfolio fund in accordance with our expectations or that we will be able to recover on our investments. Furthermore, certain of our PE Investments may be co-invested with other companies managed by our manager or its affiliates, which increases the likelihood that we could have conflicts of interest with that company.We rely on unaffiliated managers to manage the assets held by the real estate private equity funds in which we invest.The portfolio funds in which we invest are managed by professional investment managers unrelated to us. The returns we achieve depend in large part on the efforts and performance results obtained by the portfolio fund managers. We attempt to evaluate each portfolio fund based on an analysis of its investment portfolio from available information, such as the investment strategies of the portfolio fund, the existing assets in the portfolio fund and the performance history of other funds managed by its managers. Past performance may not, however, be a reliable indicator of future results, and portfolio fund managers, investment management personnel and investment strategies of any portfolio fund in which we invest may change without our consent. In addition, we are typically not in a position to exercise control or substantial influence over the portfolio funds. The actions taken by those holding a majority ownership interest in and/or control of a portfolio fund may not always be in our best interests and may have an adverse effect on our investment in such portfolio fund.Our acquisitions of PE Investments in Secondary Transactions (as defined below) are based on available information and assumptions. We generally will acquire PE Investments from one or more sellers who is/are existing limited partners in the portfolio funds in one or more transactions on the secondary market, or Secondary Transactions. The overall performance of PE Investments acquired in a Secondary Transaction will depend largely on the acquisition price paid for such PE Investments, which may be negotiated based on incomplete or imperfect information, including valuations provided by the portfolio fund managers, which may be based 41Table of Contentson interim unaudited financial statements, research, market data or other information available to the manager. Such information may prove to be incomplete or imperfect, which could adversely affect the performance of the PE Investments. Additionally, in determining the acquisition price, we will be relying on certain assumptions with respect to the investments held by the portfolio funds, projected exit dates, future operating results, market conditions, the timing and manner of dispositions and other similar considerations. Actual realized returns on PE Investments will depend on various factors, including future operating results, market conditions at the time of disposition, legal and contractual restrictions on transfer that may limit liquidity, any related transaction costs, and the timing and manner of disposition, all of which may materially differ from the assumptions on which we relied in negotiating the acquisition price.We may agree to a deferred component of the purchase price for the acquisition of a PE Investment, which increases our leverage and may create additional risks. We may agree with a seller for all or a portion of the purchase price for a PE Investment acquired in a Secondary Transaction to be paid by over a period of time, or a Deferred Purchase Price Acquisition, which increases our leverage by the amount of the deferred payment obligation. In addition, the terms of any Deferred Purchase Price Acquisition may require us to pay all or a portion of cash flows received from the portfolio funds to the seller to reduce the unpaid purchase price. Therefore, there may be little or no near term cash flow available to us following the PE Investment. PE Investments acquired in Secondary Transactions may include a pool of portfolio funds that are acquired on an “all or nothing” basis.We may have the opportunity to acquire a portfolio of portfolio funds from a seller on an "all or nothing" basis. Certain of the portfolio funds in the portfolio may be less attractive (for commercial, tax, legal or other reasons) than others, and certain of the sponsors of such portfolio funds may be more familiar to us than others, or may be more experienced or highly regarded than others. In such cases, it may not be possible for us to carve out from such purchases those investments which we consider (for commercial, tax, legal or other reasons) less attractive. In addition, because the purchaser in a Secondary Transaction generally will step into the position of the seller, we generally will not have the ability to modify or amend a portfolio fund’s constituent documents (e.g. limited partnership agreement) or otherwise negotiate the legal or economic terms of the interests being acquired. Additionally, our acquisition of portfolio funds in a Secondary Transaction will generally be subject to the consent of each portfolio fund manager and may, in some cases, be subject to rights of first refusal or similar rights by existing portfolio fund investors. In the event a portfolio fund manager withholds its consent to a transfer to us or the investors in a portfolio fund exercise any rights of first refusal to acquire all or a portion of the interests to be transferred to us, it could adversely impact the performance of the PE Investment portfolio and us.PE Investments are short-lived assets and we may not be able to reinvest capital in comparable investments.As of December 31, 2015, our PE Investments have a weighted average life of approximately 1.5 years based on our projections and assumptions. Because these PE Investments or short-lived, we may be unable to reinvest the distributions received from the portfolio funds in investments with similar returns, which could adversely impact our performance. PE Investments add additional layers of fees and expenses. We and the portfolio funds each have multiple layers of expenses and management costs that will be borne, directly or indirectly, by us. Each PE Investment generally will entail the payment of certain expenses, plus management fees and carried interest to the general partner or investment manager of each portfolio fund, which are in addition to the fees and expenses incurred directly by us. Such fees and expenses reduce our returns. Risks Relating to Our Manufactured Housing InvestmentsOur investment in manufactured housing communities may not be successful.As of December 31, 2015, our manufactured housing communities represented 13.2% of our real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2015 (based on cost), including 136 manufactured housing communities totaling approximately 33,055 pad rental sites. We are reliant, in substantial part, on the experience of a third-party operator to manage these assets on our behalf. Effectively managing these assets requires significant experience and there is no assurance that we or our third-party operator will be successful in maintaining or improving occupancy and otherwise preserving and increasing the value of these assets. Our investment in these assets may not generate the cash flow we anticipate or otherwise perform as expected. We could experience losses in these assets, which would negatively impact our operating performance and distributions to stockholders.Economic conditions generally and in our current markets may affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue. Market and economic conditions in our current markets generally, and specifically in metropolitan areas of our current markets, may significantly affect manufactured home occupancy or rental rates. Occupancy and rental rates, in turn, may significantly affect our revenues, and if our communities do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt 42Table of Contentsservice and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay or refinance our debt obligations could be adversely affected. We derive significant amounts of our rental income from properties located in Colorado, Utah and Florida.The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the revenues generated by our communities:•the national and local economic climate which may be adversely impacted by, among other factors, plant closings and industry slowdowns; •local real estate market conditions; •the number of repossessed homes in a particular market; •the perceptions by prospective tenants of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties and the neighborhoods where they are located; •zoning or other regulatory restrictions; •competition from other available manufactured housing and alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built single-family homes); •the ability of our manager to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance; •increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes, and utilities; and•the enactment of rent control laws or laws taxing the owners of manufactured homes.Risks Related to Our Investments in CRE Debt and SecuritiesThe CRE debt we originate and invest in and mortgage loans underlying the CRE securities we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, taking title to collateral, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower under the loan. If the borrower defaults, it may result in losses to us.Our CRE debt investments are secured by commercial real estate and are subject to risks of delinquency, loss, taking title to collateral and bankruptcy of the borrower. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced or is not increased, depending on the borrower’s business plan, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy and the underlying asset value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. In this manner, real estate values could impact the value of our CRE debt and securities investments. Therefore, our CRE debt and securities will be subject to the risks typically associated with real estate.Additionally, we may suffer losses for a number of reasons, including the following, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance:•the value of the assets securing our CRE debt investments may deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, which may result in a loss of principal or interest to the extent the assets collateralizing our CRE debt are insufficient to satisfy the loan. •a borrower or guarantor may not comply with its financial covenants or may not have sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our CRE debt and related guarantees, particularly in periods of challenging economic and market conditions.•Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. •Taking title to collateral, or otherwise liquidating defaulted CRE debt investments, can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a negative effect on the return on our investment. •We may need to restructure loans if our borrowers are unable to meet their obligations to us, which might include lowering interest rates, extending maturities or making other concessions that may result in the loss of some or all of our investment. Further, we may be unable to restructure loans in a manner that we believe would maximize value, particularly in situations where there are multiple creditors and/or a large lender group.The subordinate CRE debt we originate and invest in may be subject to risks relating to the structure and terms of the related transactions, as well as subordination in bankruptcy, and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our investments, which may result in losses to us.We originate, structure and acquire subordinate CRE debt investments secured primarily by commercial properties, which may include subordinate mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and participations in such loans and preferred equity interests in borrowers who own such properties. These investments may be subordinate to other debt on commercial property and are secured by 43Table of Contentssubordinate rights to the commercial property or by equity interests in the borrower. In addition, real properties with subordinate debt may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional debt, resulting in less equity in the real property and increasing the risk of loss of principal and interest. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, after senior obligations are met, there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate interests. Because each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate investments can vary in their structural characteristics and lender rights. Our rights to control the default or bankruptcy process following a default will vary from transaction to transaction. The subordinate investments that we originate and invest in may not give us the right to demand taking title to collateral as a subordinate real estate debt holder. Furthermore, the presence of intercreditor agreements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Similarly, a majority of the participating lenders may be able to take actions to which we object, but by which we will be bound. Even if we have control, we may be unable to prevent a default or bankruptcy and we could suffer substantial losses. Certain transactions that we originated and invested in could be particularly difficult, time consuming and costly to work out because of their complicated structure and the diverging interests of all the various classes of debt in the capital structure of a given asset.We may make certain CRE debt and securities investments that involve high risks.We may make investments in certain assets that involve greater risks, such as transitional assets, non-performing assets and construction or development assets. These types of investments may involve greater risks than investments in stabilized, performing assets and make our future performance more difficult to predict. For example:•Transitional properties are often associated with floating-rate loans and increases in a borrower’s monthly payment as a result of an increase in prevailing market interest rates may make it more difficult for the borrowers with floating-rate loans to repay the loan and could increase the risk of default of their obligations under the loan.•Non-performing real estate assets are challenging to evaluate as they do not have a consistent stream of cash flow to support normalized debt service, lack stabilized occupancy rates and may require significant capital for repositioning. Further, strategies available to create value in a non-performing real estate investment, including development, redevelopment or lease-up of a property or negotiating a reduced payoff, may not be successful.•Construction loans have the potential for cost overruns, the developer’s failing to meet a project delivery schedule, market downturns and the inability of a developer to sell or refinance the project at completion in accordance with its business plan and repay our CRE debt.In addition, we may invest in subordinate, unrated or distressed mortgage loans or unrated or non-investment grade CRE securities, which typically result from increased leverage, lack of strong operating history, borrowers’ credit history, underlying cash flow from the properties and other factors. As a result, these investments typically have higher risk of default and loss, particularly during economic downturns. We invest in CRE securities, including CMBS and other subordinate securities, which entail certain heightened risks.We invest in a variety of CRE securities that are subordinate securities subject to the first risk of loss if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans. CMBS entitle the holders thereof to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial or multifamily mortgage loans. Consequently, CMBS and other CRE securities will be adversely affected by payment defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying mortgage loans, which increase during times of economic stress and uncertainty. Furthermore, if the rental and leasing markets deteriorate, including by decreasing occupancy rates and decreasing market rental rates, it could reduce cash flow from the mortgage loan pools underlying our CMBS investments. The market for CRE securities is dependent upon liquidity for refinancing and may be negatively impacted by a slowdown in new issuance.Additionally, CRE securities such as CMBS may be subject to particular risks, including lack of standardized terms and payment of all or substantially all of the principal only at maturity rather than regular amortization of principal. The value of CRE securities may change due to shifts in the market’s perception of issuers and regulatory or tax changes adversely affecting the CRE debt market as a whole. Additional risks may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property, as well as the general risks relating to the net operating income from and value of any commercial property. The exercise of remedies and successful realization of liquidation proceeds relating to CRE securities may be highly dependent upon the performance of the servicer or special servicer. Expenses of enforcing the underlying mortgage loan (including litigation expenses) and expenses of protecting the properties securing the loan may be substantial. Consequently, in the event of a default or loss on one or more loans contained in a securitization, we may not recover a portion or all of our investment. Ratings for CRE securities can also adversely affect their value.44Table of ContentsSome of our investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by us and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these investments.Some of our investments are recorded at fair value but will have limited liquidity or will not be publicly traded. The fair value of these investments that have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We will estimate the fair value of these investments on a quarterly basis. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on numerous estimates and assumptions, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a readily available market for these securities existed. If our determination regarding the fair value of these investments are materially different than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Provision for loan losses are difficult to estimate, particularly in a challenging economic environment.In a challenging economic environment, we may experience an increase in provisions for loan losses and asset impairment charges, as borrowers may be unable to remain current in payments on loans and declining property values weaken our collateral. Our determination of provision for loan losses requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which may be difficult to determine, particularly in a challenging economic environment. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flow from the collateral securing our CRE debt, structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for refinancing and expected market discount rates for varying property types, all of which remain uncertain and are subjective. Our estimates and judgments may not be correct, particularly during challenging economic environments, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted.Risks Related to Our Financing StrategyWe may not be able to access financing sources on attractive terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We use a variety of financing sources, including mortgage notes, credit facilities, securitization financing transactions and other term borrowings, as well as preferred equity and exchangeable senior notes. For example, as of December 31, 2015, we had $11 billion of borrowings outstanding, including $662 million recourse borrowings under credit facilities and term borrowings, $31 million recourse exchangeable notes and $9.5 billion in mortgage financings, as well as $939 million in aggregate principal amount of preferred stock.Our ability to effectively execute our financing strategy depends on various conditions in the financing markets that are beyond our control, including liquidity, health of the CMBS markets and credit spreads. While we seek non-recourse long-term financing, such financing may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, even with non-recourse financing, we typically enter into guarantees for limited bad acts, environmental matters and other conditions that could impose recourse liability on us. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of financing for our assets, which may include more restrictive recourse borrowings and borrowings with higher debt service that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. If alternative financing is not available on favorable terms, or at all, we may have to liquidate assets at unfavorable prices to pay off such financing. Our return on our investments and distributions to stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the earnings that we can derive from the assets we acquire or originate. Our credit facilities permit us to make significant borrowings, which restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and could require that we generate significant cash flow or access the capital markets to satisfy the payment and other obligations.We may make significant borrowings under credit facilities. For example, as of December 31, 2015, we had $165 million outstanding under our Corporate Revolver with a three-year term guaranteed by substantially all of our material wholly-owned subsidiaries. We may also obtain additional facilities and increase our lines of credit on existing facilities in the future. Our credit facilities contain various affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, limitations on debt, liens and restricted payments, as well as financial covenants. Compliance with these covenants restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, these borrowings may exceed our cash on hand and/or our cash flows from operating activities. Our ability to meet the payment and other obligations under our credit facilities depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow or access capital markets in the future. Our ability to generate cash flow or access capital markets, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our credit facilities. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our credit facilities and other borrowing obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our borrowings, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. There is no assurance we will be able to do any of the foregoing on 45Table of Contentsfavorable terms or at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our credit facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity.We may not be able to borrow additional amounts under our credit facilities.Certain of our borrowings may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, such as our Corporate Revolver, based on the value of certain investment assets that make up a borrowing base. Such investment assets may fluctuate in value. Decreases in value would reduce our borrowing base and could prevent us from borrowing. In addition, our Corporate Revolver includes financial maintenance covenants and non-financial covenants. Breach of any such covenants would block additional borrowings under the facility. Our inability to borrow additional amounts could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing, and completing desirable investments and could negatively affect our liquidity, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Inability to borrow could also prevent us from making distributions to our stockholders.We are subject to risks associated with obtaining mortgage financing on our real estate, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.As of December 31, 2015, our real estate portfolio had $9.5 billion of total mortgage financing. We are subject to risks normally associated with financing, including the risks that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal, that we may be unable to refinance existing borrowings or support collateral obligations and that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing borrowing. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions or the sale of the underlying property, our cash flow may not be sufficient in all years to make distributions to stockholders and to repay all maturing borrowings. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, the interest expense relating to that refinanced borrowing would increase, which could reduce our profitability, result in losses and negatively impact the amount of distributions we are able to pay to stockholders. Moreover, additional financing increases the amount of our leverage, which could negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or make us more vulnerable in a downturn in our results of operations or the economy generally.We use short-term borrowings to finance our investments and we may need to use such borrowings for extended periods of time to the extent we are unable to access long-term financing. This may expose us to increased risks associated with decreases in the fair value of the underlying collateral, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.While we expect to seek non-recourse, non-mark-to-market, long-term financing through securitization financing transactions or other structures, such financing may be unavailable to us on favorable terms or at all. Consequently, we may be dependent on short-term financing arrangements that are not matched in duration to our financial assets. Short-term borrowing through repurchase arrangements, credit facilities and other types of borrowings may put our assets and financial condition at risk. Furthermore, the cost of borrowings may increase substantially if lenders view us as having increased credit risk during periods of market distress. Any such short-term financing may also be recourse to us, which will increase the risk of our investments. In addition, the value of assets underlying any such short-term financing may be marked-to-market periodically by the lender, including on a daily basis. If the fair value of the assets subject to such financing arrangements decline, we may be required to provide additional collateral or make cash payments to maintain the loan-to-collateral value ratio. If we are unable to provide such collateral or cash repayments, we may lose our economic interest in the underlying assets. Further, such borrowings may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash reserves or to set aside unleveraged assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. These facilities may be restricted to financing certain types of assets, such as first mortgage loans, which could impact our asset allocation. In addition, such short-term borrowing facilities may limit the length of time that any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our income generated on such assets. In the event that we are unable to meet the collateral obligations for our short-term financing arrangements, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.Our performance can be negatively affected by fluctuations in interest rates and shifts in the yield curve may cause losses.Our financial performance is influenced by changes in interest rates, in particular, as such changes may affect our floating-rate borrowings, CRE debt and CRE securities. A substantial portion of our borrowings bear interest at variable rates. For example, the financing for the acquisition of the Griffin-American Portfolio includes U.S. and U.K.-based borrowings, with a floating rate component of $1.2 billion of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2015, with a weighted average interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.15% and three-month LIBOR plus 4.25%, respectively. Additionally, our Corporate Revolver, as amended, of $250 million bears interest at a floating rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.50%. If market interest rates increase, the interest rate on our variable rate borrowings will increase and will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow and could adversely impact our results of operations. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher debt service requirements, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk.In addition, changes in the general level of interest rates can negatively affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-46Table of Contentsbearing borrowings and hedges. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect, among other things, our ability to acquire CRE securities, acquire or originate CRE debt at attractive prices and enter into hedging transactions. Interest rate changes may also impact our net book value as our CRE securities and derivatives are recorded at fair value each quarter. Generally, as interest rates increase, the value of our fixed rate securities decreases, which will decrease the book value of our equity. Furthermore, shifts in the U.S. Treasury yield curve reflecting an increase in interest rates would also affect the yield required on our CRE securities and therefore their value.Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control.Our interest rate risk sensitive assets, liabilities and related derivative positions are generally held for non-trading purposes. As of December 31, 2015, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in one-month LIBOR applied to our floating-rate assets and liabilities (including derivatives) would result in a decrease in net interest income of approximately $43 million annually, of which $30 million of the change is attributable to floating rate financing of hotel and healthcare operating real estate and does not reflect the potential increase in rental cash flow associated with economic growth that may be typical in a rising interest rate environment.In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate assets or LIBOR capped floating rate assets would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability.Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets less our operating costs, reduced by any credit losses and financing costs. Income from our assets may respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may adversely influence our net income. Increases in these rates may decrease our net income. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding the income from our assets could result in losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing borrowings during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on those investments, which would adversely affect our profitability.Hedging against interest rate and currency exposure may adversely affect our earnings, limit our gains or result in losses, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders.We may enter into swap, cap or floor agreements or pursue other interest rate or currency hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on interest rate levels, currency exposure, the type of investments held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate and/or currency hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:•interest rate and/or currency hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;•available interest rate and/or currency hedging may not correspond directly with the risk for which protection is sought;•the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset;•our hedging opportunities may be limited by the treatment of income from hedging transactions under the rules determining REIT qualification;•the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;•the counterparties with which we trade may cease making markets and quoting prices in such instruments, which may render us unable to enter into an offsetting transaction with respect to an open position; •the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and•we may purchase a hedge that turns out not to be necessary, i.e., a hedge that is out of the money.Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate and/or currency risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates or exchange rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not be able to establish a perfect correlation between hedging instruments and the investments being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. For example, in June 2015 we entered into a $2 billion notional 10-year fixed interest rate swap in order to seek to hedge against future refinancing costs of certain of our mortgage borrowings. This swap is currently materially out of the money and we have posted $74 million of margin as of February 25, 2016 for the benefit of our counterparty and may be subject to future margin calls. 47Table of ContentsIf an early termination event occurs now with respect to this swap, in addition to losing the margin we have posted we would currently be required to pay approximately $160 million to our counterparty. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearinghouse or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs.The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument lengthens and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no regulatory or statutory requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure stockholders that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.Refer to the below risk factor “The direct or indirect effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010 for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, may have an adverse effect on our interest rate hedging activities” for a discussion of how the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, may affect the use of hedging instruments.We are subject to litigation risk related to our legacy CDO business.Each of our N-Star CDOs is governed by an indenture, collateral management agreement and other documentation. The documents are complex and collectively describe the conditions upon which we can sell assets and reinvest principal proceeds and set forth covenants and other provisions to which we and the CDOs are subject. In certain circumstances, the performance of the underlying CDO collateral has raised ambiguities in our CDO documentation. We could take a position, inadvertently or otherwise, that a court ultimately determines constitutes a breach of the underlying agreements and the results of such a determination could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We could also be subject to litigation related to our legacy CDO business in general, which could be costly to defend and distracting to management and there is no assurance that the outcome would not have a material adverse effect if any such litigation were to arise.Our exchangeable senior notes are recourse obligations to us.As of December 31, 2015, $31.4 million of principal amount of our exchangeable senior notes were outstanding, of which we may be required to repurchase $13.0 million, $1.0 million and $17.4 million in June 2017, June 2019 and June 2023, respectively. These amounts are full recourse obligations of our company. If we are not able to extend, refinance or repurchase these borrowings, we may not have the ability to repay these amounts when they come due. Our inability to repay any of our exchangeable senior notes could cause the acceleration of our borrowings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.Our exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions.The indenture agreements governing our exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of borrowings under other agreements. If a cross-default occurred, we may not be able to pay our liabilities or access capital from external sources in order to refinance our borrowings. If some or all of our borrowings default and it causes a default under other borrowings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.The holders of our exchangeable senior notes may elect to exchange those notes prior to maturity and we may be required to use common stock, cash or both to satisfy our exchange obligations.Our exchangeable senior notes may be exchanged at any time prior to maturity at the option of the holder in accordance with the terms of the applicable indenture. In December 2013, we made a revocable election to satisfy our exchange obligations with shares of our common stock for the principal amount of the notes, as determined in accordance with the applicable indenture. We may change our election at any time in accordance with the terms of the applicable indentures and elect to satisfy all exchanges with a combination of cash and common stock, rather than only common stock. In 2015 to date, we exchanged an aggregate of $14 million principal amount of exchangeable senior notes and settled all such exchanges in shares of our common stock. These exchanges, as well as any additional exchanges we may effect in the future through settlement with shares of our common stock, will exacerbate the dilutive effects to our stockholders. If we determine to use only cash to exchange our notes rather than stock, 48Table of Contentsour liquidity could be negatively impacted. If the price of our common stock rises and our distributions continue to increase, the economic incentive to exchange our notes will likely increase.We may become liable for senior notes issued by NorthStar Europe.In July 2015, prior to the NRE Spin-off, NorthStar Europe, then our wholly-owned subsidiary, issued $340 million principal amount of senior notes due in December 2016. We guaranteed all of NorthStar Europe’s obligations under these senior notes. While NorthStar Europe has agreed to reimburse us for any principal or interest payments on these senior notes made after the NRE Spin-off, there can be no assurance that NorthStar Europe will have sufficient funds to repay the noteholders on its own or reimburse us in the event we have to repay the noteholders. Risks Related to Our CompanyOur significant acquisition and investment activity in recent years presents certain risks to our business and operations.We have made significant acquisitions and investments in the past few years. Our significant acquisition and investment activity presents certain risks to our business and operations, including, among other things, that:•We may be unable to successfully integrate the assets or companies we acquired into our business and operations, maintain consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions and other investments within the anticipated time frame or at all; •We, or NSAM, may be unable to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees;•Projections of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and integration planning process might be inaccurate;•Additional borrowings incurred or equity issued to finance acquisitions and investments could cause our leverage to increase or our per share financial results to decline;•Acquisitions and other new investments could divert management’s attention from our existing assets;•The value of acquired assets or the market price of our common stock may decline; and•We may be unable to continue paying dividends at the current rate.We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate acquisitions and investments without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a material adverse effect on us. Further, we cannot assure you that, the market will appropriately value our business and operations, which may cause the market price of our common stock to suffer.We may undergo future restructurings, including internalization of our management company and/or spin-offs of certain of our assets, which may not be successful.We may in the future determine to restructure our organization and/or assets, including potentially internalizing our management company and/or spinning off certain of our assets as we did with the NSAM Spin-off and the NRE Spin-off. Any such restructurings may not achieve the intended strategic and financial benefits or any benefits at all. In the event that any such restructuring does not achieve expected benefits, such restructuring could expose us to increased litigation and shareholder activism, have a negative effect on our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We may be subject to the actions of activist shareholders.We may be the subject of increased activity by activist shareholders and shareholder activism generally is increasing. Responding to shareholder activism can be costly and time-consuming, create conflicts with our manager, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our manager from executing our business plan. Activist campaigns can create perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership and may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, tenants/operators/managers and joint venture partners and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation. Moreover, if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, even though less than a majority, our ability to effectively and timely implement our current initiatives and execute on our long-term strategy may be adversely affected.Our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. Many of the expenses associated with owning real estate, such as debt-service payments, payments to our asset manager, property taxes, insurance, utilities and, as applicable, employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible. They do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue and may be subject to increases that are not tied to the performance of our assets or the increase in the rate of inflation generally. Additionally, certain costs may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. 49Table of ContentsWe may be unable to offset any fixed or increased expenses. Any of our efforts to reduce operating costs also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our assets.We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business.As a diversified CRE company, our business is highly dependent on information technology systems, including systems provided by NSAM and third parties for which we have no control. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the information technology systems, but any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Potential sources for disruption, damage or failure of our information technology systems include, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, human error, cyber attacks, natural disasters and defects in design.Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations.We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that resides on or is transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of contracts, reputational harm or legal liability.Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.We may in the future be involved in litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business and may potentially be involved in other legal proceedings, including securities class actions and regulatory and governmental investigations. We are unable to predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any litigation we may be involved in. Litigation could be more likely in connection with a change of control transaction or during periods of market dislocation or shareholder activism. Developments adverse to us in legal proceedings to which we may be subject in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or our reputation.We believe CAD and NOI (as defined below), each a non-GAAP measure, provides a meaningful indicator of our operating performance; however, neither CAD or NOI should be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as an indicator of operating performance.Management uses CAD and net operating income, or NOI, to evaluate our profitability and performance of our business. CAD and NOI are each a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe that CAD is useful because it adjusts for a variety of cash (such as transaction costs, cash flow related to N-Star CDO equity interests and community fees) and non-cash items (such as depreciation and amortization, equity-based compensation, realized gain (loss) on investments, provision for loan losses, asset impairment, bad debt expense and non-cash interest income and expense items). We calculate CAD by subtracting from or adding to net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, non-controlling interests and the following items: depreciation and amortization items including depreciation and amortization, straight-line rental income or expense (excluding amortization of rent free periods), amortization of above/below market leases, amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of discount on financings and other and equity-based compensation; cash flow related to N-Star CDO equity interests; accretion of consolidated N-Star CDO bond discounts; non-cash net interest income in consolidated N-Star CDOs; unrealized gain (loss) from the change in fair value; realized gain (loss) on investments and other, excluding accelerated amortization related to sales of CDO bonds or other investments; provision for loan losses, net; impairment on depreciable property; bad debt expense; deferred tax benefit (expense); acquisition gains or losses; distributions and adjustments related to joint venture partners; transaction costs; foreign currency gains (losses); impairment on goodwill and other intangible assets; gains (losses) on sales; and one-time events pursuant to changes in U.S. GAAP and certain other non-recurring items. For example, CAD has been adjusted to exclude non-recurring gain (loss) from deconsolidation of certain N-Star CDOs. These items, if applicable, include any adjustments for unconsolidated ventures.In addition, we believe NOI is a useful metric of the operating performance of our real estate portfolio in the aggregate. Portfolio results and performance metrics represent 100% for all consolidated investments and represent our ownership percentage for unconsolidated joint ventures. NOI represents total property and related revenues, adjusted for: (i) amortization of above/below market rent; (ii) straight line rent; (iii) other items such as adjustments related to joint ventures, cash flow related to community fees and non-recurring bad debt expense; and (iv) less property operating expenses. However, the usefulness of NOI is limited because it excludes general and administrative costs, interest expense, transaction costs, depreciation and amortization expense, realized gains (losses) from the sale of properties and other items under U.S. GAAP and capital expenditures and leasing costs necessary to maintain the operating performance of properties, all of which may be significant economic costs. NOI may fail to capture significant trends in these components of U.S. GAAP net income (loss) which further limits its usefulness. Neither CAD or NOI should be considered as an alternative to net income (loss), determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as an indicator of operating performance. In addition, our methodology for calculating CAD and NOI involves subjective judgment 50Table of Contentsand discretion, and may differ from the methodologies used by other comparable companies, including other REITs, when calculating the same or similar supplemental financial measures and may not be comparable with these companies. For example, our calculation of CAD per share does not take into account any potential dilution from our exchangeable senior notes or warrants outstanding, or restricted stock units subject to performance metrics not yet achieved.Failure to meet market expectations, particularly with respect to CAD and NOI, would likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our common stock or other outstanding securities. Any guidance we may give regarding CAD or NOI or other measures will involve assumptions and subjective judgment and actual results may be materially different.The use of estimates and valuations may be different from actual results, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, establishing provision for loan losses and potential litigation liability. Market volatility may make it difficult to determine the fair value for certain assets and liabilities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these financial instruments in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these assets and liabilities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time for that particular type of asset and may be materially lower than our estimate of their current fair value. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual values and results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.Our distribution policy is subject to change.Our board of directors determines an appropriate common stock distribution based upon numerous factors, including REIT qualification requirements, the amount of cash flow generated from operations, availability of existing cash balances, borrowing capacity under existing credit agreements, access to cash in the capital markets and other financing sources, our view of our ability to realize gains in the future through appreciation in the value of our assets, general economic conditions and economic conditions that more specifically impact our business or prospects. Our board of directors reviewed changes to our distribution policy on a quarterly basis in 2015 but may review such policy less frequently in the future. Following our board of directors’ review, our board of directors determined to reduce the distribution to $0.40 per share of common stock for the fourth quarter of 2015. Future distribution levels are subject to further adjustment based upon any one or more of the risk factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other factors that our board of directors may, from time-to-time, deem relevant to consider when determining an appropriate common stock distribution and our distribution level could remain flat or decline.We may not be able to make distributions in the future.Our ability to generate income and to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any document we file with the SEC. All distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable law, and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time-to-time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future or we may have to reduce our distribution rate.Our ability to make distributions is limited by the requirements of Maryland law.Our ability to make distributions on our common stock is limited by the laws of Maryland. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland corporation may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its liabilities as the liabilities become due in the usual course of business, or generally if the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we may not make a distribution on our common stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our liabilities as they become due in the usual course of business or generally if our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any series of preferred stock then outstanding, if any, with preferences senior to those of our common stock.Stockholders may experience substantial dilution.We have in the past and may continue to undertake numerous and substantial offerings of our common stock and securities that are convertible into our common stock. If we continue to engage in such offerings, whether through the public markets or in private placements, our existing stockholders may experience immediate and substantial dilution in their percentage ownership of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, stockholders may experience dilution in the value of their shares depending on the terms and pricing of any new issuances and the value of our assets at such time.51Table of ContentsThere can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase stock or that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices.Our board of directors has approved a stock repurchase program and may approve additional repurchase programs in the future. The amount and timing of stock repurchases are subject to capital availability and our determination that stock repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the repurchase of stock. Our ability to repurchase stock will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors beyond our control that we may deem relevant. A reduction in, or the completion or expiration of, our stock repurchase program could have a negative effect on our stock price. We can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all. Further, to the extent we incur borrowings to finance stock repurchases, our leverage will be increased, which increases the risk of loss associated with our business.We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent and make riskier investments.We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from and possibly riskier than the investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and commercial real estate market fluctuations.Stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face as stockholders.Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding growth, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. We may change our investment policies without stockholder notice or consent, which could result in investments that are different than, or in different proportion than, those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, and our charter, stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board of directors’ broad discretion in setting policies and stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders face.Risks Related to Regulatory Matters and Our REIT Tax StatusWe are subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies and failure to comply with these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We and our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies. Given our organizational structure, we are subject to regulation by the SEC, NYSE, IRS, and other federal, state, local and foreign governmental bodies and agencies. These regulations are extensive, complex and require substantial management time and attention. If we fail to comply with any of the regulations that apply to our business, we could be subjected to extensive investigations as well as substantial penalties and our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Our lack of compliance with applicable law could result in, among other penalties, our ineligibility to contract with and receive revenue from the federal government or other governmental authorities and agencies. We also have numerous contractual obligations that we must adhere to on a continuous basis to operate our business, the default of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have also established internal policies designed to ensure that we manage our business in accordance with applicable law and regulation and in accordance with our contractual obligations. While we have designed policies to appropriately operate our business, these internal policies may not be effective in all regards and, further, if we fail to comply with our internal policies, we could be subjected to additional risk and liability.The direct or indirect effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010 for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, may have an adverse effect on our interest rate hedging activities.In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law in the United States. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act provides for significantly increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that could affect our interest rate hedging or other risk management activities, including: (i) regulatory reporting for swaps; (ii) mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated exchanges or electronic facilities for certain swaps; and (iii) margin and collateral requirements. Although the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has not yet finalized certain requirements, many other requirements have taken effect, such as swap reporting, the mandatory clearing of certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps and the mandatory trading of certain swaps on swap execution facilities or exchanges. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our interest rate hedging activities cannot be assessed until implementing rules and regulations are adopted and market practice develops, the requirements of Title VII may affect our ability to enter into hedging or other risk management transactions, may increase our costs in entering into such transactions and may result in us entering into such transactions on less favorable terms than prior to effectiveness of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events may have an adverse effect on our business.Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations.Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We intend to make investments and conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company. If we were 52Table of Contentsobligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things:•limitations on capital structure; •restrictions on specified investments; •prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and •compliance with reporting, recordkeeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. Excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, are securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses through subsidiaries, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own directly, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash) on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of our subsidiaries and the types of businesses in which we may engage through these subsidiaries.We must monitor our subsidiaries’ holdings to ensure that we satisfy the 40% test. Through our wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, we will be primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of these subsidiaries, namely the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other interests in real estate.Most of these subsidiaries will rely on the exception from the definition of an investment company under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which is available for entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of a subsidiary’s portfolio must be qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of its portfolio must be qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets (and no more than 20% of miscellaneous assets). For purposes of the exclusions provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C), we will classify our investments based in large measure on no-action letters issued by the SEC staff and other SEC interpretive guidance and, in the absence of SEC guidance, on our view of what constitutes a qualifying real estate asset and a real estate-related asset. These no-action positions were issued in accordance with factual situations that may be substantially different from the factual situations we may face, and a number of these no-action positions were issued more than twenty years ago. In August 2011, the SEC issued a concept release in which it asked for comments on various aspects of Section 3(c)(5)(C), and, accordingly, the SEC or its staff may issue further guidance in the future. Future revisions to the Investment Company Act or further guidance from the SEC or its staff may force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our investment strategy.Certain of our other subsidiaries do not satisfy the 40% test, but instead rely on other exceptions from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act that either limit the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or the manner in which these subsidiaries may acquire and sell assets. For instance, certain of our CDOs rely on the exclusion from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act provided by Rule 3a-7 thereunder, which is available for certain structured financing vehicles. This exclusion limits the ability of these CDOs to sell their assets and reinvest the proceeds from asset sales.The loss of our Investment Company Act exclusion could require us to register as an investment company or substantially change the way we conduct our business, either of which may have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock.On August 31, 2011, the SEC published a concept release (Release No. 29778, File No. S7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage Related Instruments), pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in mortgage-backed securities and rely on the exclusion from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, such as us, should continue to be allowed to rely on such an exclusion from registration. If the SEC takes action with respect to this exclusion, these changes could mean that certain of our CDOs and other subsidiaries could no longer rely on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exclusion, and would have to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), which would mean that our investment in those subsidiaries would be investment securities. This could result in our failure to maintain our exclusion from registration as an investment company.53Table of ContentsIf we fail to maintain an exclusion from registration as an investment company, either because of SEC interpretational changes or otherwise, we could, among other things, be required either: (i) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company; or (ii) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters.Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. This could depress our stock price.Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:•“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and•“control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.Pursuant to the Maryland Business Combination Act, our board of directors has exempted any business combinations: (i) between us and NorthStar Capital Investment Corp. or any of its affiliates; and (ii) between us and any person, provided that any such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements do not apply to business combinations between us and any of them. As a result, such parties may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of stockholders, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions in the statute. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that these resolutions or exemptions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control.Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of stockholders.Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of stockholders.Maryland law also allows a corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in its charter or bylaws, to a classified board, unless its charter prohibits such an election. Our charter contains a provision prohibiting such an election to classify our board of directors under this provision of Maryland law. This may make us more vulnerable to a change in control. If stockholders voted to amend this charter provision and to classify our board of directors, the staggered terms of our directors could reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of stockholders.54Table of ContentsOur bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland or, if that court does not have jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholder believes is more favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, manager or agents.Our bylaws currently provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, or if that court does not have jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division, will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any director, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours to us or our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any director, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours arising pursuant to the MGCL, our charter or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a stockholder; or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any director, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, manager or agents, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, manager or agents. Our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax and reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders.We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to continue to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal and applicable state and local income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net income available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax.If, for any reason, we failed to continue to qualify as a REIT and we were not entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to so qualify.Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow funds to make distributions to stockholders or otherwise depend on external sources of capital to fund such distributions.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we may elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain. In that case, a stockholder would be taxed on its proportionate share of our undistributed long-term gain and would receive a credit or refund for its proportionate share of the tax we paid. A stockholder, including a tax-exempt or foreign stockholder, would have to file a federal income tax return to claim that credit or refund. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We anticipate that distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income, although a portion of such distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gain to the extent attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that such distribution exceeds our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes.From time-to-time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income (loss) for U.S. GAAP, due to among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, fair value adjustments and reserves. In addition, our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders as a result of, among other things, repurchases of our outstanding debt at a discount and investments in assets that generate taxable income in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets (for example, if a borrower defers the payment of interest in cash pursuant to a contractual right or otherwise).We believe that the former operating partnership of our predecessor properly elected to defer, under Section 108(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, the recognition of cancellation of indebtedness, or COD, income generated from repurchasing its debt at a discount. If the IRS successfully challenges that election, our predecessor may be treated as having failed to pay sufficient dividends to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and/or avoid the corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. We may be 55Table of Contentsrequired to correct any failure to meet the 90% distribution requirement by paying deficiency dividends to stockholders and an interest charge to the IRS in a later year.If we do not have other funds available in the situations described in the preceding paragraphs, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to distribute enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity.Because of the distribution requirement, it is unlikely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund future capital needs, we likely will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including both debt and equity financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third‑party sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our stock.Our TRS structure increases our overall tax liability.We have acquired interests in multiple portfolios of hotel and healthcare properties through joint ventures, the Griffin American merger and otherwise. Some of these properties are leased to TRSs of ours, which, in turn, engage “eligible independent contractors” to operate such properties. Such an arrangement is referred to as a “RIDEA structure.” We refer to the TRS lessees in our RIDEA structures as our “TRS Lessees.” Our TRS Lessees are subject to federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, which consists of the revenues from the hotel and healthcare properties leased by our TRS Lessees, net of the operating expenses for such properties and rent payments to us. Accordingly, although our ownership of our TRS Lessees allows us to participate in the operating income from our hotel and healthcare properties in addition to receiving rent, that operating income is fully subject to income tax. The after-tax net income of our TRS Lessees is available for distribution to us.Our ownership of TRSs is limited and our transactions with our TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms.A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross operating income from hotels and healthcare properties that are operated by eligible independent contractors pursuant to management agreements. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT's gross assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.Our TRSs are subject to federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRSs is and will continue to be less than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total gross assets (including our TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm's-length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% or 20% limitations discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above.If our leases with our TRS Lessees are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to qualify as a REIT.To qualify as a REIT, we are required to satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel and healthcare property leases with our TRS Lessees, which constitutes a significant portion of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. We have structured our leases, and intend to structure any future leases, so that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this characterization, not challenge this treatment or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and could fail to qualify for REIT status.56Table of ContentsIf our hotel and healthcare property managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors”, we could fail to qualify as a REIT.Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We lease all of our hotels and a substantial portion of our healthcare properties to our TRS Lessees. A TRS Lessee will not be treated as a “related party tenant” and will not be treated as directly operating a lodging facility to the extent the TRS Lessee leases properties from us that are managed by an “eligible independent contractor.” In addition, our TRS Lessees will fail to qualify as TRSs if they lease or own a lodging or healthcare facility that is not managed by an “eligible independent contractor.”If our hotel and healthcare property managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each of the hotel and healthcare management companies that enters into a management contract with our TRS Lessees must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRS Lessees to be qualifying income for our REIT income test requirements and for our TRS Lessees to qualify as TRSs. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a manager must not own more than 35% of our outstanding shares (by value) and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the ownership interests of the manager, taking into account only owners of more than 5% of our shares and, with respect to ownership interests in such managers that are publicly traded, only holders of more than 5% of such ownership interests. Complex ownership attribution rules apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds. Although we intend to monitor ownership of our shares by our property managers and their owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded.If the NSAM Spin-off and related restructuring did not qualify as transactions that are generally tax-deferred for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could fail to qualify as a REIT.On June 30, 2014, we distributed to our common stockholders the common stock of NSAM, which owns our former asset management business, in the form of a tax-deferred distribution, or the Distribution. In connection with the Distribution, we received opinions of counsel to the effect that, among other things, the Distribution should be treated as a tax-deferred distribution under Section 355 of the Code. We did not seek or receive a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the tax consequences of the Distribution. The opinions we received were based on our representations and certain assumptions. If the representations or assumptions were untrue or incomplete in any material respect, the Distribution may not be treated as a tax-deferred transaction. Moreover, the opinions we received were based on existing U.S. federal income tax law, which is subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis, and are not binding on the IRS or any court. Accordingly, no assurance can be provided that the opinions we received will not be successfully challenged by the IRS.If the Distribution did not qualify as a tax-deferred distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the NSAM common stock distributed over our adjusted tax basis in such stock. The gain from that taxable sale may cause us to fail to satisfy the 75% gross income test. Unless that failure qualifies for a statutory “REIT savings provision,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT for our 2014 taxable year and would be prohibited from electing REIT status for the following four taxable years.Even if the Distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-deferred distribution, it might be taxable to us under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if 50% or more of either the total voting power or the total fair market value of our stock or the NSAM stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. If Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code applies as a result of such an acquisition, we would recognize a taxable gain as described above.We would incur adverse tax consequences if Griffin-American failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.On December 3, 2014, we acquired Griffin-American via a merger. In connection with the closing of the merger, we received an opinion of counsel to the effect that Griffin-American qualified to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes through the closing date of the merger. In connection with the merger, Griffin-American ceased to exist as a separate REIT. However, if Griffin-American failed to qualify as a REIT prior to the merger, the combined company generally would succeed to or incur significant tax liabilities (including the significant tax liability that would result from the deemed sale of assets by Griffin-American pursuant to the merger). Additionally, the combined company could possibly lose its REIT qualification should the activities that disqualified Griffin-American continue after the merger.For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we makes any distributions to our stockholders. Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our stockholders. Furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we failed to qualify.57Table of ContentsWe could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT and/or pay additional taxes if the IRS recharacterizes certain of our international investments.We have recently made, and intend to continue to make, significant property investments in international jurisdictions. We have funded our equity in such investments through the use of instruments that we believe will be treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes. If the IRS disagreed with such characterization and was successful in recharacterizing the nature of our investments in international jurisdictions, we could fail to satisfy one or more of the asset and gross income tests applicable to REITs. Additionally, if the IRS recharacterized the nature of our investments and we were to take action to prevent such REIT test failures, the actions we would take could expose us to increased taxes both internationally and in the United States.We could be subject to increased taxes if the tax authorities in various international jurisdictions were to modify tax rules and regulations on which we have relied in structuring our international investments.We currently receive favorable tax treatment in various international jurisdictions through tax rules, regulations, tax authority rulings, and international tax treaties. Should changes occur to these rules, regulations, rulings or treaties, we may no longer receive such benefits, and consequently, the amount of taxes we pay with respect to our international investments may increase.We could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT if the IRS successfully challenges our treatment of our mezzanine loans and repurchase agreements.We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. If the IRS disagrees with the application of these provisions to our assets or transactions, including with respect to assets we have owned in past transactions, our REIT qualification could be jeopardized. For example, IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in Revenue Procedure 2003-65, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests and interest derived from it will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the 75% income test. Although Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. Moreover, our mezzanine loans typically do not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in mezzanine loans in a manner that we believe will enable us to continue to satisfy the REIT gross income and asset tests. In addition, we have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our mortgage assets to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we will be treated for federal income tax purposes as the owner of the mortgage assets that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement notwithstanding that we transferred record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the mortgage assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. Even if the IRS were to disagree with one or more of our interpretations and we were treated as having failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, we could maintain our REIT qualification if our failure was excused under certain statutory savings provisions. However, there can be no guarantee that we would be entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions if we failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, and even if we were entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions, we could be required to pay a penalty tax.The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.The IRS has issued Revenue Procedure 2003-65, which provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan that is secured by interests in a pass-through entity will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT tests, and interest derived from such loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. We originated and acquired and will continue to originate and acquire mezzanine loans that do not satisfy all of the requirements for reliance on the safe harbor set forth in the Revenue Procedure. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the tax treatment of such loans, which could jeopardize our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of taking title to collateral, the federal alternative minimum tax and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through TRSs.58Table of ContentsComplying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to stockholders and the ownership of our stock. As discussed above, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Additionally, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise attractive to us in order to satisfy the source of income requirements for qualifying as a REIT.We must also ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets), no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs and no more than 25% of our assets can be represented by debt of “publicly offered REITs” that is not secured by real property or interests in real property.If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences, unless certain relief provisions apply. As a result, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of profit maximization and may require us to liquidate investments from our portfolio, or refrain from making, otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to stockholders.Modification of the terms of our CRE debt investments and mortgage loans underlying our CMBS in conjunction with reductions in the value of the real property securing such loans could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.Our CRE debt and securities investments have been and may continue to be materially affected by a weak real estate market and economy in general. As a result, many of the terms of our CRE debt and the mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities may be modified to avoid taking title to a property and for other reasons. Under the Internal Revenue Code, if the terms of a loan are modified in a manner constituting a “significant modification,” such modification triggers a deemed exchange of the original loan for the modified loan. In general, under applicable Treasury Regulations, or the Loan-to-Value Regulation, if a loan is secured by real property and other property and the highest principal amount of the loan outstanding during a taxable year exceeds the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date we agreed to acquire the loan or the date we significantly modified the loan, a portion of the interest income from such loan will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, but will be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Under recently enacted legislation, if such loan is secured by both real property and personal property and the fair market value of such personal property does not exceed 15% of the total fair market value of all such property, then the personal property securing the loan will be treated as real property. Although the law is not entirely clear, a portion of the loan not attributable to real property or personal property as described in the preceding sentence will likely be a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test. The non-qualifying portion of such a loan would be subject to, among other requirements, the requirement that a REIT not hold securities possessing more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, or the 10% Value Test.IRS Revenue Procedure 2014-51 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which we will not be required to redetermine the fair market value of the real property securing a loan for purposes of the gross income and asset tests discussed above in connection with a loan modification that is: (i) occasioned by a borrower default; or (ii) made at a time when we reasonably believe that the modification to the loan will substantially reduce a significant risk of default on the original loan. No assurance can be provided that all of our loan modifications have or will qualify for the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51. Further, it is unclear how the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51 is affected by the recent legislative changes regarding the treatment of personal property securing a mortgage loan. Until additional guidance is issued, we intend to apply the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51 without taking into account the legislative changes regarding the treatment of loans secured by both real property and personal property. To the extent we significantly modify loans in a manner that does not qualify for that safe harbor, we will be required to redetermine the value of the real property securing the loan at the time it was significantly modified. In determining the value of the real property securing such a loan, we generally will not obtain third-party appraisals, but rather will rely on internal valuations. No assurance can be provided that the IRS will not successfully challenge our internal valuations. If the terms of our CRE debt investments and mortgage loans underlying our CMBS are “significantly modified” in a manner that does not qualify for the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51 and the fair market value of the real property securing such loans has decreased significantly, we could fail the 75% gross income test, the 75% asset test and/or the 10% Value Test. Unless we qualified for relief under certain Internal Revenue Code cure provisions, such failures could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.59Table of ContentsOur ability to invest in distressed debt may be limited by our intention to maintain our qualification as a REIT.We have and may in the future acquire distressed debt, including distressed first mortgage loans, subordinate interests, mezzanine loans and CMBS. In general, under the Loan-to-Value Regulation, if a loan is secured by real property and other property and the highest principal amount of the loan outstanding during a taxable year exceeds the fair market value of the real property securing the loan as of the date we agreed to acquire the loan or the date we significantly modified the loan, a portion of the interest income from such a loan will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, but will be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Under recently enacted legislation, if such loan is secured by both real property and personal property and the fair market value of such personal property does not exceed 15% of the total fair market value of all such property, then the personal property securing the loan will be treated as real property. Although the law is not entirely clear, a portion of the loan not attributable to real property or personal property as described in the preceding sentence will also likely be a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test. The non-qualifying portion of such a loan would be subject to, among other requirements, the 10% Value Test. IRS Revenue Procedure 2014-51 provides a safe harbor under which the IRS has stated that it will not challenge a REIT’s treatment of a loan as being, in part, a qualifying real estate asset in an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the fair market value of the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT asset testing date; or (ii) the greater of (a) the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date the REIT committed to acquire or originate the loan; or (b) the current value of the real property securing the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT testing date. Additionally, Revenue Procedure 2014-51 states that the IRS will treat a distressed debt as producing a significant amount of non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test. Specifically, Revenue Procedure 2014-51 indicates that interest income on distressed debt will be treated as qualifying income based on the ratio of (i) fair market value of the real property securing the debt determined as of the date we committed to acquire the debt and (ii) the face amount of the debt (and not the purchase price of the debt). It is unclear how the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51 is affected by the recent legislative changes regarding the treatment of personal property securing a mortgage loan. Until additional guidance is issued, we intend to apply the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51 without taking into account the legislative changes regarding the treatment of loans secured by both real property and personal property. The face amount of a distressed debt will typically exceed the fair market value of the real property securing the debt on the date we commit to acquire the debt. Because distressed debt may produce a significant amount of non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test and a significant portion of a distressed debt may be treated as a non-qualifying asset for the REIT asset tests once the debt increases in value, we may be limited in our ability to invest in distressed debt and maintain our qualification as a REIT.Our investments in distressed debt may produce “phantom income” that will increase the amount of taxable income we have to distribute to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and may cause us to sell assets, borrow or make taxable distributions of debt or equity securities to satisfy that requirement.Our acquisition of distressed debt may cause us to recognize “phantom income” (or non-cash income) for federal income tax purposes. For example, if we acquire non-publicly traded distressed debt and then significantly modify that debt, we would recognize gain on the resulting deemed exchange equal to the difference between the adjusted issue price of the distressed debt and our adjusted tax basis in the distressed debt. Because we typically acquire distressed debt at a significant discount, our adjusted tax basis in the distressed debt typically is significantly lower than the adjusted issue price of the distressed debt. Accordingly, if we significantly modify non-publicly traded distressed debt, we may recognize a substantial amount of taxable income without receiving any cash. That “phantom income” will increase the amount of taxable income we are required to distribute to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement. To satisfy that requirement, we may have to sell assets or borrow funds at inopportune times or make taxable distributions of our debt or equity securities.Our acquisition of CRE debt or securities investments may cause us to recognize income for federal income tax purposes even though no cash payments have been received on the debt investments.We may acquire CRE debt or securities investments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. The amount of such discount will generally be treated as a “market discount’’ for federal income tax purposes. If these debt or securities investments provide for “payment-in-kind,’’ we may recognize “original issue discount,’’ or OID, for federal income tax purposes. Moreover, we may acquire distressed debt investments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. If the amendments to the outstanding debt constitute “significant modifications’’ under the applicable Treasury Regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower. In that event, if the debt is considered to be “publicly-traded’’ for federal income tax purposes, the modified debt in our hands may be considered to have been issued with OID to the extent the fair market value of the modified debt is less than the principal amount of the outstanding debt. In the event the debt is not considered to be “publicly traded’’ for federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our cost of purchasing it. Also, certain loans that we originate and certain previously modified debt we acquire in the secondary market may be considered to have been issued with the OID at the time it was modified.In general, we will be required to accrue OID on a debt instrument as taxable income in accordance with applicable federal income tax rules even though no cash payments may be received on such debt instrument.60Table of ContentsIn the event a borrower with respect to a particular debt instrument encounters financial difficulty rendering it unable to pay stated interest as due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income. Similarly, we may be required to accrue interest income with respect to subordinate mortgage-backed securities at the stated rate regardless of when their corresponding cash payments are received.In order to meet the REIT distribution requirements, it might be necessary for us to arrange for short-term, or possibly long-term, borrowings, or to pay distributions in the form of our shares or other taxable in-kind distributions of property. We may need to borrow funds at times when the market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of a stockholders’ investment. In the event in-kind distributions are made, a stockholder’s tax liabilities associated with an investment in our common stock for a given year may exceed the amount of cash we distribute to stockholders during such year.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations effectively. Our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. Additionally, our gross income from qualifying hedges entered into prior to July 31, 2008 constitutes non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Consequently, our gross income from qualifying hedges entered into prior to July 31, 2008, along with other sources of non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, cannot exceed 25% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. Any hedging income earned by a TRS would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur.Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax on any resulting gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory.Legislative or regulatory tax changes could adversely affect us or stockholders.At any time, the federal income tax laws can change. Laws and rules governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or stockholders.We may be subject to the REIT prohibited transactions tax as a result of executing on potential avenues to monetize our assets and deleverage our balance sheet, which could result in a significant federal income tax liability to us. As discussed above, we are exploring potential strategies to monetize certain of our assets in order to deleverage our balance sheet and create liquidity for approaching maturities on borrowings and common stock repurchases. A REIT will incur a 100% tax on the net income from prohibited transactions. Generally, a prohibited transaction includes a sale or disposition of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. While we believe that any dispositions of our assets pursuant to our deleveraging strategy should not be treated as prohibited transactions, and although we intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be treated as holding our properties for sale, whether a particular sale will be treated as a prohibited transaction depends on the underlying facts and circumstances and we have not sought and do not intend to seek, a ruling from the IRS on that issue. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the IRS would not successfully assert a contrary position with respect to our dispositions. If all or a significant portion of our dispositions were treated as prohibited transactions, we would incur a significant U.S. federal income tax liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans, which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than property that we took title to as a result of a default on a debt investment or lease and for which we make a foreclosure property election, but including loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to the prohibited transaction tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that is treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we use for any securitization financing transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by conducting certain activities through a TRS. However, to the extent that we engage in such activities through a TRS, the income associated with such activities may be subject to a corporate income tax.61Table of ContentsWe also will not be able to use secured financing structures that would create taxable mortgage pools, other than in a TRS.We may recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income, which we would be required to distribute to stockholders, in a year in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP or other economic measures.We may recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income in years in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP or other economic measures as a result of the differences between U.S. GAAP and tax accounting methods. For example, we may recognize substantial amounts of COD income for federal income tax purposes (but not for U.S. GAAP purposes) due to discount repurchases of our liabilities, which could cause our REIT taxable income to exceed our U.S. GAAP income. Additionally, we may deduct our capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains and not against our ordinary income, in computing our REIT taxable income for a given taxable year. Finally, certain of our assets and liabilities are marked-to-market for U.S. GAAP purposes but not for tax purposes, which could result in losses for U.S. GAAP purposes that are not recognized in computing our REIT taxable income. Consequently, we could recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income and would be required to distribute such income to stockholders in a year in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP or other economic measures.We may distribute our common stock in a taxable distribution, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such distributions, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock.We may make taxable distributions that are payable in cash and common stock. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as taxable distributions that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. In addition, the IRS issued a revenue procedure creating a temporary safe harbor that authorized publicly traded REITs to make elective cash/stock distributions, but that temporary safe harbor has expired. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable distributions payable in cash and common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of the dividend, which is treated as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash distributions received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount recorded in earnings with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our foreign TRSs.We have elected to treat several Cayman Islands companies, including issuers in CDO transactions, as TRSs. We will likely be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our investment in the foreign TRSs. Income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations are technically neither actual dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of qualifying income for the 95% gross income test. However, the IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs holding that income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations would be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Private letter rulings may be relied upon only by the taxpayers to whom they are issued and the IRS may revoke a private letter ruling. Based on those private letter rulings and advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, no assurance can be provided that the IRS would not successfully challenge our treatment of such income as qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.If our foreign TRSs are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and that they would have available to pay their creditors.There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS succeeded in challenging that tax treatment, it would greatly reduce the amount that those foreign TRSs would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us.62Table of ContentsThe stock ownership restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.To qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock.Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person, including entities, may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of stock of any class or series or more than 9.8% in value or number (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. The board may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Despite these restrictions, it is possible that there will be five or fewer individuals who own more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares, which could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT.These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders.If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of our tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders and stockholders with net operating losses will likely increase.In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, as defined in Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as UBTI to a tax-exempt entity under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. A foreign stockholder would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their net operating losses.Although the law is not entirely clear, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income equal to the percentage of our stock held in record name by “disqualified organizations” (generally tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income). To the extent that our stock owned by “disqualified organizations” is held in street name by a broker-dealer or other nominee, the broker-dealer or nominee would be liable for a tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of the “disqualified organizations.” A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are “disqualified organizations.”Excess inclusion income could result if a REIT held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, excess inclusion income also may be generated if a REIT issues liabilities with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments of these liabilities bear a relationship to the payments that the REIT received on mortgage loans or mortgage‑backed securities securing those liabilities. In May 2012, we adopted a policy that we would not acquire any assets or enter into any financing transactions that will produce excess inclusion income for stockholders. We also projected that our existing assets and financing transactions would not produce excess inclusion income for stockholders in 2012 or any future year. Accordingly, we expect that no portion of our dividends will constitute excess inclusion income. However, we could be wrong in our analysis of historic or new investments or we could affirmatively determine to modify our excess inclusion income policy in the future. If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders, stockholders with net operating losses, regulated investment companies and other pass-through entities whose record name owners are disqualified organizations and brokers-dealers and other nominees who hold stock on behalf of disqualified organizations will very likely increase.Our qualification as a REIT could be jeopardized as a result of our interest in joint ventures or investment funds.We currently own, and intend to continue to acquire, limited partner or non-managing member interests in partnerships and limited liability companies that are joint ventures or investment funds. If a partnership or limited liability company in which we own an interest takes or expects to take actions that could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT or require us to pay tax, we may be forced to dispose of our interest in such entity. In addition, it is possible that a partnership or limited liability company could take an action which could cause us to fail a REIT gross income or asset test, and that we would not become aware of such action in time to dispose of our interest in the partnership or limited liability company or take other corrective action on a timely basis. In that 63Table of Contentscase, we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT unless we are able to qualify for a statutory REIT “savings” provision, which may require us to pay a significant penalty tax to maintain our REIT qualification.REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction or net capital gain for this purpose) in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. We intend to make distributions to stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities, which may delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and may reduce stockholders’ overall return.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets and the amounts we distribute to stockholders. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits and the value of a stockholders’ investment.Distributions paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to other corporate distributions.The maximum tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid by corporations to individuals is 20%. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal ordinary income rate applicable to the individual recipient (currently subject to a maximum rate of 39.6%), rather than the preferential rate applicable to qualified dividends. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause potential investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay qualified distributions, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.We adopted a policy that we do not currently intend to generate excess inclusion income; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to avoid generating excess inclusion income, which could cause our common stock to become ineligible for inclusion in the Russell indices.In May 2012, we reported that we changed our policy regarding the generation of excess inclusion income, which generally passes through to our tax-exempt stockholders as UBTI. Pursuant to this new policy, we do not intend to acquire any assets or enter into any financing transactions that will produce excess inclusion income for stockholders. We also projected that our existing assets and financing transactions would not generate excess inclusion income in 2012 or any future year. This policy change allowed our common stock to continue to be eligible for inclusion in the Russell indices, such as the Russell 2000 Index. Russell had indicated that it would remove from eligibility any security that has historically generated UBTI and where the issuer has not taken steps to prevent the future generation of such income. As a result of this policy, we may forgo investment opportunities that we would otherwise have considered to be attractive. Furthermore, we could be wrong in our analysis of historic or new investments or we could affirmatively determine to modify the policy in the future, thereby generating excess inclusion income, and, consequently, UBTI, for tax-exempt stockholders. If that is the case, certain of stockholders could suffer unanticipated adverse tax consequences. Furthermore, in such an event, our common stock could become ineligible for inclusion in the Russell indices, which could adversely affect demand for our common stock and its price.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.