risk factors that the Company would analyze for proposed public finance exposures include, for example, the credit quality of the issuer, the type of issue, the repayment source, the security pledged, the presence of restrictive covenants and the issue's maturity date. The Company has also been focusing on the ability of obligors to file for bankruptcy or receivership under applicable statutes (and on related statutes that provide for state oversight or fiscal control over financially troubled obligors); the amount of liquidity available to the obligors for debt payment, including the obligors' exposure to derivative contracts and to debt subject to acceleration; and to the ability of the obligors to increase revenue. Underwriting considerations include (1) the classification of the transaction, reflecting economic and social factors affecting that bond type, including the importance of the proposed project to the community, (2) the financial management of the project and of the issuer, and (3) various legal and administrative factors. In cases where the primary source of repayment is the taxing or rate setting authority of a public entity, such as general obligation bonds, transportation bonds and municipal utility bonds, emphasis is placed on the overall financial strength of the issuer, the economic and demographic characteristics of the taxpayer or ratepayer and the strength of the legal obligation to repay the debt. In cases of not-for-profit institutions, such as healthcare issuers and private higher education issuers, emphasis is placed on the financial stability of the institution, its competitive position and its management experience. Structured finance obligations generally present three distinct forms of risk: (1) asset risk, pertaining to the amount and quality of assets underlying an issue; (2) structural risk, pertaining to the extent to which an issue's legal structure provides protection from loss; and (3) execution risk, which is the risk that poor performance by a servicer contributes to a decline in the cash flow available to the transaction. Each risk is addressed in turn through the Company's underwriting process. Generally, the amount and quality of asset coverage required with respect to a structured finance exposure is 8 Table of Contents dependent upon the historic performance of the subject asset class, or those assets actually underlying the risk proposed to be insured or assumed through reinsurance. Future performance expectations are developed from this history, taking into account economic, social and political factors affecting that asset class as well as, to the extent feasible, the subject assets themselves. Conclusions are then drawn about the amount of over-collateralization or other credit enhancement necessary in a particular transaction in order to protect investors (and therefore the insurer or reinsurer) against poor asset performance. In addition, structured securities usually are designed to protect investors (and therefore the guarantor) from the bankruptcy or insolvency of the entity which originated the underlying assets, as well as the bankruptcy or insolvency of the servicer of those assets. For international transactions, an analysis of the country or countries in which the risk resides is performed. Such analysis includes an assessment of the political risk as well as the economic and demographic characteristics of the country or countries. For each transaction, the Company performs an assessment of the legal jurisdiction governing the transaction and the laws affecting the underlying assets supporting the obligations. Underwriting Procedure Each transaction underwritten by the Company involves persons with different expertise across various departments within the Company. The Company's transaction underwriting teams include both underwriting and legal personnel, who analyze the structure of a potential transaction and the credit and legal issues pertinent to the particular line of business or asset class, and accounting and finance personnel, who review the transaction for compliance with applicable accounting standards and investment guidelines. In the public finance portion of the Company's financial guaranty direct segment, underwriters generally analyze the issuer's historical financial statements and, where warranted, develop stress case projections to test the issuers' ability to make timely debt service payments under stressful economic conditions. In the structured finance portion of the Company's financial guaranty direct segment, underwriters generally use computer-based financial models in order to evaluate the ability of the transaction to generate adequate cash flow to service the debt under a variety of scenarios. The models include economically-stressed scenarios that the underwriters use for their assessment of the potential credit risk inherent in a particular transaction. For financial guaranty reinsurance transactions, stress model results may be provided by the primary insurer. Stress models may also be developed internally by the Company's underwriters and reflect both empirical research as well as information gathered from third parties, such as rating agencies, investment banks or servicers. The Company may also perform a due diligence review when the underwriters believe that such a review is necessary to assess properly a particular transaction. A due diligence review may include, among other things, a site visit to the project or facility, meetings with issuer management, review of underwriting and operational procedures, file reviews, and review of financial procedures and computer systems. The Company may also engage advisors such as consultants and external counsel to assist in analyzing a transaction's financial or legal risks. Upon completion of the underwriting analysis, the underwriter prepares a formal credit report that is submitted to a credit committee for review. An oral presentation is usually made to the committee, followed by questions from committee members and discussion among the committee members and the underwriters. In some cases, additional information may be presented at the meeting or required to be submitted prior to approval. Signatures of committee members are received and any further requirements, such as specific terms or evidence of due diligence, is noted. The Company currently has four credit committees composed of senior officers of the Company. The committees are organized by asset class, such as for public finance or structured finance, or along regulatory lines, to assess the various potential exposures. Risk Management Procedures Organizational Structure The Company's policies and procedures relating to risk assessment and risk management are overseen by its Board of Directors. The Board takes an enterprise-wide approach to risk management that is designed to support the Company's business plans at a reasonable level of risk. A fundamental 9 Table of Contents part of risk assessment and risk management is not only understanding the risks a company faces and what steps management is taking to manage those risks, but also understanding what level of risk is appropriate for the Company. The Board of Directors annually approves the Company's business plan, factoring risk management into account. The involvement of the Board in setting the Company's business strategy is a key part of its assessment of management's risk tolerance and also a determination of what constitutes an appropriate level of risk for the Company. While the Board of Directors has the ultimate oversight responsibility for the risk management process, various committees of the Board also have responsibility for risk assessment and risk management. The Risk Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the standards, controls, limits, guidelines and policies that the Company establishes and implements in respect of credit underwriting and risk management. It focuses on management's assessment and management of both (i) credit risks and (ii) other risks, including, but not limited to, financial, legal and operational risks, and risks relating to the Company's reputation and ethical standards. In addition, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for, among other matters, reviewing policies and processes related to the evaluation of risk assessment and risk management, including the Company's major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. It also reviews compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Furthermore, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews compensation-related risks to the Company. The Company has established a number of management committees to develop underwriting and risk management guidelines, policies and procedures for the Company's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries that are tailored to their respective businesses, providing multiple levels of credit review and analysis. •Portfolio Risk Management Committee—This committee establishes company-wide credit policy for all segments of the Company's business. It implements specific underwriting procedures and limits for the Company and allocates underwriting capacity among the Company's subsidiaries. The Portfolio Risk Management Committee focuses on measuring and managing credit, market and liquidity risk for the overall company. All transactions in new asset classes or new jurisdictions must be approved by this committee. •U.S. Management Committee—This committee establishes strategic policy and reviews the implementation of strategic initiatives and general business progress in the U.S. The U.S. Management Committee approves risk policy at the U.S. operating company level. •U.S. Risk Management Committee—This committee conducts an in-depth review of the insured portfolios of the U.S. subsidiaries, focusing on varying portions of the portfolio at each meeting. It assigns internal ratings of the insured transactions and reviews sector reports, monthly product line surveillance reports and compliance reports. •Workout Committee—This committee receives reports from Surveillance and Workout personnel on transactions that might benefit from active loss mitigation and develops and approves loss mitigation strategies for such transactions. •Reserve Committee—Oversight of reserving risk is vested in the U.S. Reserve Committee, the AG Re Reserve Committee and the U.K. Reserve Committee. The committees review the reserve methodology and assumptions for each major asset class or significant below investment grade ("BIG") transaction, as well as the loss projection scenarios used and the probability weights assigned to those scenarios. The U.S. Reserve Committee establishes reserves for AGC and AGM, taking into consideration the supporting information provided by Surveillance personnel. It is composed of the President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Accounting Officer, Chief Surveillance Officer and Chief Actuary of AGC and AGM. The AG Re Reserve Committee is composed of the President, Chief Credit Officer and Financial Controller of AG Re. The AG Re Reserve Committee reviews its reserving methodology with the AG Re board of directors. The U.K. Reserve Committee is composed of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and head surveillance officer of the Company's U.K. subsidiaries. It reviews its reserving methodology with the boards of directors of the Company's U.K. subsidiaries. 10 Table of Contents The Company's surveillance personnel are responsible for monitoring and reporting on all transactions in the insured portfolio, including exposures in both the financial guaranty direct and reinsurance segments. The primary objective of the surveillance process is to monitor trends and changes in transaction credit quality, detect any deterioration in credit quality, and recommend to management such remedial actions as may be necessary or appropriate. All transactions in the insured portfolio are assigned internal credit ratings, and surveillance personnel are responsible for recommending adjustments to those ratings to reflect changes in transaction credit quality. The Company's workout personnel are responsible for managing workout and loss mitigation situations. They work together with the Company's surveillance personnel to develop and implement strategies on transactions that are experiencing loss or may be likely to experience loss. They develop strategies designed to enhance the ability of the Company to enforce its contractual rights and remedies (including its rights to require that sellers or originators repurchase loans from residential mortgage-backed securities transactions if the seller or originator has breached its representations and warranties regarding the loans) and mitigate its losses. The Company's workout personnel also engage in negotiation discussions with transaction participants and, when necessary, manage (along with legal personnel) the Company's litigation proceedings. They may also make open market purchases of securities that the Company has insured and work with servicers of residential mortgage-backed securities transactions to enhance their performance. Since the onset of the financial crisis, the Company has shifted personnel to loss mitigation and workout activities and hired new personnel to augment its efforts in this area. Financial Guaranty Direct Business The Company monitors the performance of each risk in its portfolio as well as tracks risk aggregations. The review cycle and scope vary based upon transaction type and credit quality. In general, the review process includes the collection and analysis of information from various sources, including trustee and servicer reports, financial statements and reports, general industry or sector news and analyses, and rating agency reports. For public finance risks, the surveillance process includes monitoring general economic trends, developments with respect to state and municipal finances, and the financial situation of the issuers. For structured finance transactions, the surveillance process can include monitoring transaction performance data and cash flows, compliance with transaction terms and conditions, and evaluation of servicer or collateral manager performance and financial condition. Additionally, the Company uses various quantitative tools and models to assess transaction performance and identify situations where there may have been a change in credit quality. For all transactions, surveillance activities may include discussions with or site visits to issuers, servicers or other parties to a transaction. Financial Guaranty Reinsurance Business For transactions in the Company's financial guaranty reinsurance segment, the ceding insurers are responsible for conducting ongoing surveillance of the exposures that have been ceded to the Company. The Company's surveillance personnel monitor the ceding insurer's surveillance activities on exposures ceded to the Company through a variety of means including, but not limited to, reviews of surveillance reports provided by the ceding insurers, and meetings and discussions with their analysts. The Company's surveillance personnel also monitor general news and information, industry trends and rating agency reports to help focus surveillance activities on sectors or credits of particular concern. For certain exposures, the Company also will undertake an independent analysis and remodeling of the transaction. In the event of credit deterioration of a particular exposure, more frequent reviews of the ceding company's risk mitigation activities are conducted. The Company's surveillance personnel also take steps to ensure that the ceding insurer is managing the risk pursuant to the terms of the applicable reinsurance agreement. To this end, the Company conducts periodic reviews of ceding companies' surveillance activities and capabilities. That process may include the review of the insurer's underwriting, surveillance and claim files for certain transactions. Ceded Reinsurance As part of its risk management strategy, the Company has sought in the past to obtain third party reinsurance or retrocessions and may also periodically enter into other arrangements to reduce its 11 Table of Contents exposure to risk concentrations, such as for single risk limits, portfolio credit rating or exposure limits, geographic limits or other factors. At December 31, 2010, the Company had ceded approximately 9.4% of its principal amount outstanding to third party reinsurers. The Company historically obtained reinsurance to increase its underwriting capacity, both on an aggregate-risk and a single-risk basis, to meet internal, rating agency and regulatory risk limits, diversify risks, reduce the need for additional capital, and strengthen financial ratios. The Company receives capital credit for ceded reinsurance based on the reinsurer's ratings in the capital models used by the rating agencies to evaluate the Company's capital position for its financial strength ratings. In addition, a number of the Company's reinsurers are required to pledge collateral to secure their reinsurance obligations to the Company. In some cases, the pledged collateral augments the rating agency credit for the reinsurance provided. In recent years, most of the Company's reinsurers have been downgraded by one or more rating agency below the Company's ratings. While ceding commissions or premium allocation adjustments may compensate in part for such downgrades, the effect of such downgrades, in general, is to decrease the financial benefits of using reinsurance under rating agency capital adequacy models. However, to the extent a reinsurer still has the financial wherewithal to pay, the Company could still benefit from the reinsurance provided. The Company's ceded reinsurance may be on a quota share, first-loss or excess-of-loss basis. Quota share reinsurance generally provides protection against a fixed specified percentage of all losses incurred by the Company. First-loss reinsurance generally provides protection against a fixed specified percentage of losses incurred up to a specified limit. Excess-of-loss reinsurance generally provides protection against a fixed percentage of losses incurred to the extent that losses incurred exceed a specified limit. Reinsurance arrangements typically require the Company to retain a minimum portion of the risks reinsured. The Company has both facultative (transaction-by-transaction) and treaty ceded reinsurance contracts, generally arranged on an annual basis. By annual treaty, the Company employed "automatic facultative" reinsurance that permitted the Company to apply reinsurance to transactions it selected subject to certain limitations. The remainder of the Company's treaty reinsurance provided coverage for a portion, subject in certain cases to adjustment at the Company's election, of the exposure from all qualifying policies issued during the term of the treaty. The reinsurer's participation in a treaty was either cancellable annually upon 90 days' prior notice by either the Company or the reinsurer or had a one-year term. Treaties generally provide coverage for the full term of the policies reinsured during the annual treaty period, except that, upon a financial deterioration of the reinsurer or the occurrence of certain other events, the Company generally has the right to reassume all or a portion of the business reinsured. Reinsurance agreements may be subject to other termination conditions as required by applicable state law. Importance of Financial Strength Ratings Debt obligations guaranteed by AGL's insurance company subsidiaries are generally awarded debt credit ratings that are the same rating as the financial strength rating of the AGL subsidiary that has guaranteed that obligation. Investors in products insured by AGC or AGM frequently rely on rating agency ratings because ratings influence the trading value of securities and form the basis for many institutions' investment guidelines as well as individuals' bond purchase decisions. Low financial strength ratings or uncertainty over the Company's ability to maintain its financial strength ratings would have a negative impact on issuers' and investors' perceptions of the value of the Company's insurance product. Therefore, the Company manages its business with the goal of achieving high financial strength ratings, preferably the highest that an agency will assign. However, the models used by rating agencies differ, presenting conflicting goals that may make it inefficient or impractical to reach the highest rating level. The models are not fully transparent, contain subjective data (such as assumptions about future market demand for the Company's products) and change frequently. Historically, insurance financial strength ratings reflect an insurer's ability to pay under its insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms. The rating is not specific to any particular policy or contract. Insurance financial strength ratings do not refer to an insurer's ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase any policy or contract issued by an insurer or to buy, hold, or sell any security insured by an insurer. The ratings also reflect 12 Table of Contents qualitative factors with respect to such things as the insurer's business strategy and franchise value, the anticipated future demand for its product, the composition of its portfolio, as well as its capital adequacy, profitability and financial flexibility. The rating agencies have developed and published methodologies for rating financial guaranty and mortgage guaranty insurers and reinsurers. The insurance financial strength ratings assigned by the rating agencies are based upon factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors in AGL's common shares. The rating criteria used by the rating agencies in establishing these ratings include consideration of the sufficiency of capital resources to meet projected growth (as well as access to such additional capital as may be necessary to continue to meet applicable capital adequacy standards), a company's overall financial strength, and demonstrated management expertise in financial guaranty and traditional reinsurance, credit analysis, systems development, marketing, capital markets and investment operations. Ratings reflect only the views of the respective rating agencies and are subject to continuous review and revision or withdrawal at any time. A substantial downgrade of the financial strength ratings of the Company's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries would adversely affect its business and prospects and, consequently, its results of operations and financial condition. The Company believes that if the financial strength ratings of AGM and/or AGC were downgraded from their current levels, such downgrade could result in downward pressure on the premium it is able to charge for its insurance; however, the Company expects that so long as AGM and AGC are able to maintain financial strength ratings in the double-A category or higher, they are likely to be able to continue writing financial guaranty business with a credit quality similar to that historically written. The Company believes that if the financial strength ratings of AGM and/or AGC were downgraded to the single-A level or below, it could be difficult for the Company to originate the same volume of new business with comparable credit characteristics. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Company's Financial Strength and Financial Enhancement Ratings" and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Strength Ratings" for more information about the Company's ratings. Investments The Company's principal objectives in managing its investment portfolio are to preserve the highest possible ratings for each operating company; maintain sufficient liquidity to cover unexpected stress in the insurance portfolio; and maximize total after-tax net investment income. The Company has a formal review process for all securities in the Company's investment portfolio, including a review for impairment losses. Factors considered when assessing impairment include: •a decline in the market value of a security by 20% or more below amortized cost for a continuous period of at least six months; •a decline in the market value of a security for a continuous period of 12 months; •recent credit downgrades of the applicable security or the issuer by rating agencies; •the financial condition of the applicable issuer; •whether loss of investment principal is anticipated; •whether scheduled interest payments are past due; and •whether the Company intends to sell the security prior to its recovery in fair value. One component of the Company's risk management strategy is the purchase of obligations that are either insured by the Company or part of the same issuance as obligations insured by the Company. Such purchases enable the Company to exercise rights available to holders of the obligations or to mitigate its losses. As of December 31, 2010, the Company holds securities purchased for loss mitigation purposes with a gross par outstanding of $528.1 million in its investment accounts. If the Company believes a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, the Company records the decline as an unrealized loss on the Company's consolidated balance sheets in "accumulated other comprehensive income" in shareholders' equity. 13 Table of Contents Prior to April 1, 2009, if the Company believed the decline to be "other than temporary," the Company wrote down the carrying value of the investment and recorded a realized loss in the Company's consolidated statements of operations. As of April 1, 2009, a new accounting standard was issued requiring any credit-related impairment on debt securities the Company does not plan to sell and more-likely-than-not will not to be required to sell to be recognized in the consolidated statement of operations, with the non-credit-related impairment recognized in other comprehensive income. For other impaired debt securities, where the Company has the intent to sell the security or more likely than not be required to or where the entire impairment is deemed by the Company to be credit-related, the entire impairment is recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. The Company's assessment of the credit portion of a decline in value includes management's current assessment of the factors noted above. If that assessment changes in the future, the Company may ultimately record a loss after having originally concluded that the decline in value was temporary. The Company's investment portfolio is managed by BlackRock Financial Management, Inc., Deutsche Investment Management Americas Inc., General Re-New England Asset Management, Inc. and Wellington Management Company, LLP. The Company's investment managers have discretionary authority over the Company's investment portfolio within the limits of the Company's investment guidelines approved by the Company's Board of Directors. The Company compensates each of these managers based upon a fixed percentage of the market value of the Company's portfolio. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded investment management fee expenses of $8.0 million, $5.4 million, and $2.6 million, respectively, related to these managers. Competition Assured Guaranty's principal competition consists of other forms of credit enhancement, such as letters of credit or credit derivatives provided by foreign and domestic banks and other financial institutions, some of which are governmental enterprises, or direct guaranties of municipal, structured finance or other debt by a federal or state government or government-sponsored or affiliated agency. For example, in 2010, $11.7 billion of municipal bonds relied on letters of credit for credit enhancement, according to the SDC Thomson municipal database. This constitutes a decrease from $20.5 billion of municipal bonds in 2009. In addition, credit or structural enhancement embedded in transactions, such as through overcollateralization, first loss insurance, excess spread or other terms and conditions that provide investors with additional collateral or cash flow also compete with the Company's financial guaranties. Finally, the Company effectively competes with investors' conflicting demands for higher yields on investments versus their desire for higher-rated securities. Assured Guaranty is currently the market leader in providing financial guaranty insurance. Other companies who had been active in this market experienced significant financial distress during the financial crisis and currently no longer have financial strength ratings adequate to remain active in new business origination. For example, Ambac Assurance Corporation, whose parent company Ambac Financial Group, Inc. filed for a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in 2010, is not writing new business. MBIA Insurance Corporation, which transferred its U.S. public finance exposures to its affiliate National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, is not writing new business. National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, a company that only insures U.S. public finance obligations, currently appears not to have financial strength ratings adequate to issue new financial guaranty policies on public finance obligations. Syncora Guarantee Inc. ("Syncora") and Financial Guaranty Insurance Company were ordered by the New York Insurance Department, their principal regulator, to suspend all claim payments until capital strengthening plans were implemented. Syncora was subsequently permitted to resume paying claims, but is not writing any new business. CIFG Assurance North America, Inc. has been restructured but is not writing new business; it ceded a significant portion of its U.S. public finance portfolio to AGC in January 2009. Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation, the only new entrant into the financial guaranty industry other than National that has written any new business, did not write new business in 2009 or 2010. Municipal and Infrastructure Assurance Corporation ("MIAC"), another entrant into the financial guaranty industry, was unable to raise sufficient capital in 2010 in order to insure any business; Radian Asset 14 Table of Contents Assurance Inc. announced in February 2011 that it had signed an agreement to purchase MIAC, subject to regulatory approval. In the future, should the market's view about financial guaranty insurance stabilize, new entrants into the financial guaranty industry could reduce the Company's future new business prospects, including by furthering price competition or offering financial guaranty insurance on transactions with structural and security features that are more favorable to the issuers than those required by Assured Guaranty. In addition, the Federal Home Loan Bank has been authorized to participate to a limited extent in the municipal financial guaranty market. There have also been proposals for the U.S. Congress to establish a federally chartered bond insurer and for states, pension funds and the National League of Cities to establish bond insurers. Alternative credit enhancement structures, and in particular federal government credit enhancement or other programs, can also affect the Company's new business prospects, particularly if they provide direct governmental-level guaranties, restrict the use of third-party financial guaranties or reduce the amount of transactions that might qualify for financial guaranties. There have been periodic proposals during the past several years for state-level support of financial guaranties through investment in non-profit bond insurers. In addition, state guaranty funds for municipal debt, such as the Texas Permanent School Fund, can also impact the demand for the Company's financial guaranty insurance. Some aspects of the U.S. federal government's bailout of financial institutions also reduced the demand for financial guaranties. For instance, the terms of the Troubled Asset Loan Facility program through the U.S. Treasury, which ceased providing new loans on March 31, 2010, excluded financial guaranty forms of credit enhancement, reducing the amount of structured finance issuance that might come into the public market for insurance. Other factors, which may not directly address credit enhancement, may also affect the demand for the Company's financial guaranties. For instance, the increase in conforming loan limits for residential mortgages and the expansion of the Federal Housing Administration's loan guaranty program have reduced the percentage of U.S. residential mortgage issuance available for private market securitization in the last several years. Other recent examples are the BABs program and the rating agency recalibrations, as discussed in the "Overview" above, both of which diminished the amount of bonds that could have benefitted from the Company's guaranty. The Company currently has no competitors in the financial guaranty reinsurance market. Previously, the Company had competed in the financial guaranty reinsurance market with multi-line insurers and with the other primary financial guaranty insurers. Historically, competition in the financial guaranty reinsurance business was based upon many factors including financial strength ratings from the major rating agencies, a financial enhancement rating from S&P, pricing, service, size and underwriting criteria. For more information about the competitive environment in which the Company operates, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Environment and Market Trends." Regulation General The business of insurance and reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Reinsurers are generally subject to less direct regulation than primary insurers. The Company is subject to regulation under applicable statutes in the U.S., the U.K. and Bermuda, as well as applicable statutes in Australia and Japan. United States AGL has four operating insurance subsidiaries domiciled in the U.S., which the Company refers to collectively as the "Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries." •AGC is a Maryland domiciled insurance company licensed to write financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance (which is classified in some states as surety or another line of insurance) in 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. AGC is also licensed as a Class 3 insurer in Bermuda. It is registered as a foreign company in Australia and currently operates through a 15 Table of Contents representative office in Sydney. AGC currently intends for the representative office to conduct activities so that it does not have a permanent establishment in Australia. •AGM is a New York domiciled insurance company licensed to write financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance in 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It operates through a service company in Sydney and has a branch in Tokyo authorized to transact insurance business in Japan. In February 2011, AGM informed the Insurance Business Division of the Supervision Bureau of the Financial Services Agency that it intends to submit an application to invalidate its insurance license in Japan. •Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company is a New York domiciled insurance company authorized solely to transact mortgage guaranty insurance and reinsurance. It is licensed as a mortgage guaranty insurer in the State of New York and in the District of Columbia and is an approved or accredited reinsurer in the States of California, Illinois and Wisconsin. •Assured Guaranty Municipal Insurance Company (formerly FSA Insurance Company) was redomesticated to New York from Oklahoma in 2010. It is licensed to write financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance in New York and Oklahoma. Insurance Holding Company Regulation AGL and the Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries are subject to the insurance holding company laws of their jurisdiction of domicile (Maryland and New York, respectively), as well as other jurisdictions where these insurers are licensed to do insurance business. These laws generally require each of the Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries to register with its respective domestic state insurance department and annually to furnish financial and other information about the operations of companies within their holding company system. Generally, all transactions among companies in the holding company system to which any of the Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries is a party (including sales, loans, reinsurance agreements and service agreements) must be fair and, if material or of a specified category, such as reinsurance or service agreements, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the insurance department where the applicable subsidiary is domiciled. Change of Control Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. domestic insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity and management of the applicant's board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer's plans for the management of the applicant's board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer's plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control involving AGL that some or all of AGL's stockholders might consider to be desirable, including in particular unsolicited transactions. State Insurance Regulation State insurance authorities have broad regulatory powers with respect to various aspects of the business of U.S. insurance companies, including licensing these companies to transact business, accreditation of reinsurers, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, regulating unfair trade and claims practices, establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards, regulating investments and dividends and, in certain instances, approving policy forms and related materials and approving premium rates. State insurance laws and regulations require the Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries to file financial statements with insurance departments everywhere they are licensed, authorized or accredited to conduct insurance business, and their operations are subject to examination by those departments at any time. The Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with Statutory Accounting Practices, or SAP, and procedures prescribed or 16 Table of Contents permitted by these departments. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Market conduct examinations by regulators other than the domestic regulator are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The Maryland Insurance Administration, the regulatory authority of the domiciliary jurisdiction of AGC, conducts a periodic examination of insurance companies domiciled in Maryland every five years. The Maryland Insurance Administration last issued a Report on Financial Examination with respect to AGC in 2008. The New York Insurance Department, the regulatory authority of the domiciliary jurisdiction of AGM, Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company and Assured Guaranty Municipal Insurance Company, conducts a periodic examination of insurance companies domiciled in New York, also at five-year intervals. During 2008, the New York Insurance Department completed its review of each of AGM and Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company for the five-year period ended December 31, 2007. Adverse developments surrounding the Company's industry peers have led state insurance regulators and federal regulators to question the adequacy of the current regulatory scheme governing financial guaranty insurers. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to GAAP and Applicable Law—Changes in or inability to comply with applicable law could adversely affect the Company's ability to do business." State Dividend Limitations Maryland. One of the primary sources of cash for the payment of debt service and dividends by the Company is the receipt of dividends from AGC. If a dividend or distribution is an "extraordinary dividend," it must be reported to, and approved by, the Insurance Commissioner prior to payment. An "extraordinary dividend" is defined to be any dividend or distribution to stockholders, such as Assured Guaranty US Holdings Inc. ("AGUS"), the parent holding company of AGC, which, together with dividends paid during the preceding twelve months, exceeds the lesser of 10% of AGC's policyholders' surplus at the preceding December 31 or 100% of AGC's adjusted net investment income during that period. Further, an insurer may not pay any dividend or make any distribution to its shareholders unless the insurer notifies the Insurance Commissioner of the proposed payment within five business days following declaration and at least ten days before payment. The Insurance Commissioner may declare that such dividend not be paid if the Commissioner finds that the insurer's policyholders' surplus would be inadequate after payment of the dividend or could lead the insurer to a hazardous financial condition. AGC declared and paid dividends of $50.0 million, $16.8 million and $16.5 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to AGUS. The maximum amount available during 2011 for the payment of dividends by AGC which would not be characterized as "extraordinary dividends" was approximately $85.4 million. New York. Under the New York Insurance Law, AGM may declare or pay any dividend only out of "earned surplus," which is defined as that portion of the company's surplus that represents the net earnings, gains or profits (after deduction of all losses) that have not been distributed to shareholders as dividends or transferred to stated capital or capital surplus, or applied to other purposes permitted by law, but does not include unrealized appreciation of assets. Additionally, no dividend may be declared or distributed by either company in an amount which, together with all dividends declared or distributed by it during the preceding twelve months, exceeds the lesser of: •10% of policyholders' surplus as of its last statement filed with the New York Superintendent; or •100% of adjusted net investment income during this period. Based on AGM's statutory statements for 2010, the maximum amount available for payment of dividends by AGM without regulatory approval over the 12 months following December 31, 2010 is approximately $92.7 million, subject to certain limitations. 17 Table of Contents In addition to statutory constraints, AGM is subject to contractual constraints on its ability to pay dividends. In connection with the AGMH Acquisition, AGM has agreed with Dexia that, until July 1, 2012, it will not repurchase, redeem or pay any dividends unless at such time AGM is rated at least AA- by S&P and Aa3 by Moody's and if the aggregate amount of such dividends in any year does not exceed 125% of AGMH's debt service for that year. For 2010, AGMH paid $46.1 million in debt service. An alternative to satisfying this test is if AGM receives prior rating agency confirmation that payment of the dividend would not cause any rating currently assigned to AGM to be downgraded immediately following such action. AGM did not declare or pay any dividends in 2010 or 2009. For more information regarding this agreement, see "AGMH Acquisition" within "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Contingency Reserves Maryland. In accordance with Maryland insurance law and regulations, AGC maintains a statutory contingency reserve for the protection of policyholders against the effect of adverse economic cycles. The contingency reserve is maintained for each obligation and is equal to the greater of 50% of the premiums written or a percentage of principal guaranteed (which percentage varies from 0.55% to 2.5% depending on the nature of the asset). The contingency reserve is put up over a period of either 15 or 20 years, depending on the nature of the obligation, and then taken down over the same period of time. When considering the principal amount guaranteed, the Company is permitted to take into account amounts that it has ceded to reinsurers. New York. Under the New York Insurance Law, each of AGM, Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company and Assured Guaranty Municipal Insurance Company must establish a contingency reserve to protect policyholders against the effect of adverse economic cycles. The financial guaranty insurer is required to provide a contingency reserve: •with respect to policies written prior to July 1, 1989, in an amount equal to 50% of earned premiums less permitted reductions; and •with respect to policies written on and after July 1, 1989, quarterly on a pro rata basis over a period of 20 years for municipal bonds and 15 years for all other obligations, in an amount equal to the greater of 50% of premiums written for the relevant category of insurance or a percentage of the principal guaranteed, varying from 0.55% to 2.50%, depending on the type of obligation guaranteed, until the contingency reserve amount for the category equals the applicable percentage of net unpaid principal. This reserve must be maintained for the periods specified above, except that reductions by the insurer may be permitted under specified circumstances in the event that actual loss experience exceeds certain thresholds or if the reserve accumulated is deemed excessive in relation to the insurer's outstanding insured obligations. AGM has in the past sought and obtained releases of excessive contingency reserves from the New York Insurance Department. Financial guaranty insurers are also required to maintain reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses on a case-by-case basis and reserves against unearned premiums. Single and Aggregate Risk Limits The New York Insurance Law establishes single risk limits for financial guaranty insurers applicable to all obligations issued by a single entity and backed by a single revenue source. For example, under the limit applicable to qualifying asset-backed securities, the lesser of: •the insured average annual debt service for a single risk, net of qualifying reinsurance and collateral, or •the insured unpaid principal (reduced by the extent to which the unpaid principal of the supporting assets exceeds the insured unpaid principal) divided by nine, net of qualifying reinsurance and collateral, may not exceed 10% of the sum of the insurer's policyholders' surplus and contingency reserves, subject to certain conditions. Under the limit applicable to municipal obligations, the insured average annual debt service for a single risk, net of qualifying reinsurance and collateral, may not exceed 10% of the sum of the insurer's 18 Table of Contents policyholders' surplus and contingency reserves. In addition, insured principal of municipal obligations attributable to any single risk, net of qualifying reinsurance and collateral, is limited to 75% of the insurer's policyholders' surplus and contingency reserves. Single-risk limits are also specified for other categories of insured obligations, and generally are more restrictive than those listed for asset-backed or municipal obligations. Obligations not qualifying for an enhanced single-risk limit are generally subject to the "corporate" limit (applicable to insurance of unsecured corporate obligations) equal to 10% of the sum of the insurer's policyholders' surplus and contingency reserves. For example, "triple-X" and "future flow" securitizations, as well as unsecured investor-owned utility obligations, are generally subject to these "corporate" single-risk limits. The New York Insurance Law also establishes aggregate risk limits on the basis of aggregate net liability insured as compared with statutory capital. "Aggregate net liability" is defined as outstanding principal and interest of guaranteed obligations insured, net of qualifying reinsurance and collateral. Under these limits, policyholders' surplus and contingency reserves must not be less than a percentage of aggregate net liability equal to the sum of various percentages of aggregate net liability for various categories of specified obligations. The percentage varies from 0.33% for certain municipal obligations to 4% for certain non-investment-grade obligations. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate net liability of each of AGM, AGC and Assured Guaranty Municipal Insurance Company was below the applicable limit. The New York Superintendent has broad discretion to order a financial guaranty insurer to cease new business originations if the insurer fails to comply with single or aggregate risk limits. In practice, the New York Superintendent has shown a willingness to work with insurers to address these concerns. Risk-to-Capital Requirements Under the New York Insurance Law, Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company's total liability, net of applicable reinsurance, under its aggregate insurance policies may not exceed 25 times its total policyholders' surplus, commonly known as the "risk-to-capital" requirement. As of December 31, 2010, the consolidated risk-to-capital ratio for such company was below the limit. Investments The Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolio and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed maturity securities, equity real estate, other equity investments, and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. The Company believes that the investments made by the Assured Guaranty U.S. Subsidiaries complied with such regulations as of December 31, 2010. In addition, any investment must be approved by the insurance company's board of directors or a committee thereof that is responsible for supervising or making such investment. Operations of the Company's Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries The insurance laws of each state of the U.S. and of many other countries regulate or prohibit the sale of insurance and reinsurance within their jurisdictions by unlicensed or non-accredited insurers and reinsurers. None of AGUK, AGE, AG Re, AGRO or Assured Guaranty (Bermuda) are admitted to do business in the United States. The Company does not intend that these companies will maintain offices or solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other insurance activities in any jurisdiction in the U.S. where the conduct of such activities would require it to be admitted or authorized. In addition to the regulatory requirements imposed by the jurisdictions in which they are licensed, reinsurers' business operations are affected by regulatory requirements in various states of the United States governing "credit for reinsurance" which are imposed on their ceding companies. In general, a ceding company which obtains reinsurance from a reinsurer that is licensed, accredited or approved by the ceding company's state of domicile is permitted to reflect in its statutory financial statements a credit in an aggregate amount equal to the ceding company's liability for unearned premiums (which are that portion of premiums written which applies to the unexpired portion of the policy period), loss 19 Table of Contents reserves and loss expense reserves ceded to the reinsurer. The great majority of states, however, permit a credit on the statutory financial statement of a ceding insurer for reinsurance obtained from a non-licensed or non-accredited reinsurer to the extent that the reinsurer secures its reinsurance obligations to the ceding insurer by providing a letter of credit, trust fund or other acceptable security arrangement. A few states do not allow credit for reinsurance ceded to non-licensed reinsurers except in certain limited circumstances and others impose additional requirements that make it difficult to become accredited. Bermuda AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda), the Company's "Bermuda Subsidiaries," are each an insurance company currently registered and licensed as a Class 3B insurer, a Class 3A insurer and a Class 3A insurer, respectively, and each of AG Re and AGRO is also currently registered and licensed as a "long term insurer" under the Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda. In December 2010, AG Re applied to the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the "Authority") to cancel its long-term insurance license. AGC is permitted under a revocable permit granted under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (the "Companies Act") to engage in and carry on trade and business limited to engaging in certain non U.S. financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda, subject to compliance with the conditions attached to the permit and relevant provisions of the Companies Act (including having a Bermuda principal representative for the Companies Act purposes, restrictions on activities in Bermuda, publication and filing of prospectuses on public offerings of securities, registration of charges against its assets and certain winding up provisions). AGC is also licensed as a Class 3 insurer in Bermuda. Bermuda Insurance Regulation The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda, amendments thereto and related regulations (collectively, the "Insurance Act") impose on insurance companies certain solvency and liquidity standards; certain restrictions on the declaration and payment of dividends and distributions; certain restrictions on the reduction of statutory capital; certain restrictions on the winding up of long term insurers; and certain auditing and reporting requirements and also the need to have a principal representative and a principal office (as understood under the Insurance Act) in Bermuda. The Insurance Act grants to the Authority the power to cancel insurance licenses, supervise, investigate and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies and in certain circumstances share information with foreign regulators. Class 3, Class 3A and Class 3B insurers are authorized to carry on general insurance business (as understood under the Insurance Act), subject to conditions attached to the license and to compliance with minimum capital and surplus requirements, solvency margin, liquidity ratio and other requirements imposed by the Insurance Act. Long term insurers are permitted to carry on long term business (as understood under the Insurance Act) subject to conditions attached to the license and to similar compliance requirements and the requirement to maintain its long term business fund (a segregated fund). Each of AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda) is required annually to file statutorily mandated financial statements and returns, audited by an auditor approved by the Authority (no approved auditor of an insurer may have an interest in that insurer, other than as an insured, and no officer, servant or agent of an insurer shall be eligible for appointment as an insurer's approved auditor), together with an annual loss reserve opinion of the Authority approved loss reserve specialist and in respect of AGRO, the required actuary's certificate with respect to the long term business. AG Re is also required to file audited GAAP basis annual financial statements, which must be available to the public. In addition, AG Re is required to file a capital and solvency return that includes the company's risk based capital model, a schedule of fixed income investments by rating categories, a schedule of net reserves for losses and loss expense provisions by line of business, a schedule of premiums written by line of business, a schedule of risk management, and a schedule of fixed income securities. AGC has an exemption from such filings, subject to certain conditions. Shareholder Controllers In addition, pursuant to provisions under the Insurance Act, any person who becomes a holder of at least 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of the Company's common shares must notify the Authority in writing 20 Table of Contents within 45 days of becoming such a holder. The Authority has the power to object to such a person if it appears to the Authority that the person is not fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the Authority may require the holder to reduce their shareholding in the Company and may direct, among other things, that the voting rights attaching to their common shares shall not be exercisable. A person that does not comply with such a notice or direction from the Authority will be guilty of an offence. For so long as AGL has as a subsidiary an insurer registered under the Insurance Act, the Authority may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding 10% or more of its common shares if it appears to the Authority that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the Authority may require the shareholder to reduce its holding of common shares in AGL and direct, among other things, that such shareholder's voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person who does not comply with such a notice or direction from the Authority will be guilty of an offense. Under a condition to its permit granted under the Companies Act, AGC must inform the Bermuda Minister of Finance of any change in its beneficial ownership within 14 days of the occurrence of such change. Re-Classification of Long Term Insurers The Bermuda Insurance Amendment (No. 3) Act 2010, among other things, creates five new classes of long-term insurers (being Classes A to E), with Class E insurers expected to be subject to the strictest regulation. Prior to September 30, 2011, AGRO will be required to apply to be re-registered as either a Class C, Class D, or Class E insurer, with the Class being determined based upon the total assets of AGRO. It is not expected that AG Re will need to apply to be re-registered as it has recently applied to the Authority to cancel its long-term insurance license. It is anticipated that, in due course, each Class C, Class D and Class E long term insurer, including AGRO, will be required to maintain total statutory capital and surplus equal to or exceeding its target capital level based on enhanced capital requirements calculated using a risk based capital model currently being developed by the Authority for long-term insurers. AGRO will also be subject to a new minimum margin of solvency, based on its re-classification as a Class C, Class D or Class E insurer as described above. The minimum margin of solvency: •for Class C insurers shall be the greater of $500,000 or 1.5% of assets; •for Class D insurers shall be the greater of $4,000,000 or 2% of the first $250,000,000 of assets plus 1.5% of assets above $250,000,000; and •for Class E insurers shall be the greater of $8,000,000,000 or 2% of the first $500,000,000 of assets plus 1.5% of assets above $500,000,000. Minimum Solvency Margin, Enhanced Capital Requirement and Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions Under the Insurance Act, AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda) must each ensure that the value of its general business assets exceeds the amount of its general business liabilities by an amount greater than the prescribed minimum solvency margin and, in AG Re's case, the enhanced capital requirement. The minimum solvency margin for Class 3, Class 3A and Class 3B insurers is the greater of (i) $1 million, or (ii) 20% of the first $6 million of net premiums written; if in excess of $6 million, the figure is $1.2 million plus 15% of net premiums written in excess of $6 million, or (iii) 15% of net discounted aggregate loss and loss expense provisions and other insurance reserves. In addition, each of AG Re and AGRO is also required, with respect to its long-term business, to maintain a minimum solvency margin of $250,000. Each of AG Re and AGRO is also required to establish and maintain a long-term business fund. As a Class 3B insurer, AG Re is required to maintain available statutory capital and surplus to an amount that is equal to or exceeds the target capital levels based on enhanced capital requirements calculated using the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement ("BSCR") model. The BSCR model is a risk based capital model introduced by the Authority that measures risk and determines enhanced 21 Table of Contents capital requirements and a target capital level (defined as 120% of the enhanced capital requirement) based on AG Re's statutory financial statements. The Insurance Act limits the declaration and payment of dividends and other distributions by AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda). Under the Insurance Act: •The minimum share capital must be always issued and outstanding and cannot be reduced (for a company registered both as a Class 3A and a long-term insurer, such as AGRO, the minimum share capital is $370,000 and for a company registered as a Class 3, Class 3A or Class 3B insurer only, the minimum share capital is $120,000). •With respect to the distribution (including repurchase of shares) of any share capital, contributed surplus or other statutory capital, certain restrictions under the Insurance Act may apply if the proposal is to reduce its total statutory capital. Before reducing its total statutory capital by 15% or more of the insurer's total statutory capital as set out in its previous year's financial statements, a Class 3, Class 3A or Class 3B insurer or a long-term insurer must obtain the prior approval of the Authority. In AG Re's case, any application for such approval must include an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required margins. •With respect to the declaration and payment of dividends: (a)each of AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda) is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during any financial year if it is in breach of its solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio (or enhanced capital requirement, in AG Re's case) or if the declaration or payment of such dividends would cause such a breach (if it has failed to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of any financial year, the insurer will be prohibited, without the approval of the Authority, from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year); (b)as a Class 3B insurer, AG Re is prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year's statutory balance sheet) unless it files (at least 7 days before payment of such dividends) with the Authority an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required margins; (c)a Class 3, Class 3A or Class 3B insurer which at any time fails to meet its general business solvency margin may not declare or pay any dividend until the failure is rectified, and also in such circumstances the Class 3, Class 3A or Class 3B insurer must report, within 30 days after becoming aware of its failure or having reason to believe that such failure has occurred, to the Authority giving particulars of the circumstances leading to the failure and the manner and time in which the Class 3, Class 3A or Class 3B insurer intends to rectify the failure; and (d)a Class 3B insurer which at any time fails to meet its enhanced capital requirement may not declare or pay any dividend until the failure is rectified, and also in such circumstances must report, within 14 days after becoming aware of its failure or having reason to believe that such failure has occurred, to the Authority giving particulars of the circumstances leading to the failure and the manner and time in which the Class 3B insurer intends to rectify the failure. Such an insurer must further furnish the Authority with certain information within 45 days after becoming aware of its failure or having reason to believe that such failure has occurred. •A long-term insurer may not: (a)use the funds allocated to its long-term business fund, directly or indirectly, for any purpose other than a purpose of its long-term business except in so far as such payment can be made out of any surplus certified by the insurer's approved actuary to be available for distribution otherwise than to policyholders; and (b)declare or pay a dividend to any person other than a policyholder unless the value of the assets of its long-term business fund, as certified by the insurer's approved actuary, exceeds 22 Table of Contents the extent (as so certified) of the liabilities of the insurer's long-term business, and the amount of any such dividend shall not exceed the aggregate of (1) that excess; and (2) any other funds properly available for the payment of dividends being funds arising out of the business of the insurer other than its long-term business. Under the Companies Act, a Bermuda company (such as AGL, AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda)) may only declare and pay a dividend or make a distribution out of contributed surplus (as understood under the Companies Act) if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the company is and after the payment will be able to meet and pay its liabilities as they become due and the realizable value of the company's assets will not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts. The Companies Act also regulates and restricts the reduction and return of capital and paid in share premium, including the repurchase of shares and imposes minimum issued and outstanding share capital requirements. Code of Conduct Each of AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda) will be subject to the Insurance Code of Conduct, which establishes duties and standards which must be complied with by all insurers registered under the Insurance Act, including the procedures and sound principles to be observed by such insurers. The Insurance Code of Conduct is expected to become effective on June 30, 2011. Failure to comply with the requirements under the Insurance Code of Conduct will be a factor taken into account by the Authority in determining whether an insurer is conducting its business in a sound and prudent manner as prescribed by the Insurance Act. Such failure to comply with the requirements of the Insurance Code of Conduct could result in the Authority exercising its powers of intervention and, in the case of AG Re, will be a factor in calculating the operational risk charge applicable in accordance with that insurer's BSCR model. Certain Other Bermuda Law Considerations Although AGL is incorporated in Bermuda, it is classified as a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes by the Authority. Pursuant to its non-resident status, AGL may engage in transactions in currencies other than Bermuda dollars and there are no restrictions on its ability to transfer funds (other than funds denominated in Bermuda dollars) in and out of Bermuda or to pay dividends to U.S. residents who are holders of its common shares. Under Bermuda law, "exempted" companies are companies formed for the purpose of conducting business outside Bermuda from a principal place of business in Bermuda. As an "exempted" company, AGL (as well as each of AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty (Bermuda)) may not, without the express authorization of the Bermuda legislature or under a license or consent granted by the Minister of Finance, participate in certain business and other transactions, including: (1) the acquisition or holding of land in Bermuda (except that held by way of lease or tenancy agreement which is required for its business and held for a term not exceeding 50 years, or which is used to provide accommodation or recreational facilities for its officers and employees and held with the consent of the Bermuda Minister of Finance, for a term not exceeding 21 years), (2) the taking of mortgages on land in Bermuda to secure a principal amount in excess of $50,000 unless the Minister of Finance consents to a higher amount, and (3) the carrying on of business of any kind or type for which it is not duly licensed in Bermuda, except in certain limited circumstances, such as doing business with another exempted undertaking in furtherance of AGL's business carried on outside Bermuda. The Bermuda government actively encourages foreign investment in "exempted" entities like AGL that are based in Bermuda, but which do not operate in competition with local businesses. AGL is not currently subject to taxes computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation. Bermuda companies and permit companies, such as AGC, pay, as applicable, annual government fees, business fees, payroll tax and other taxes and duties. See "—Tax Matters—Taxation of AGL and Subsidiaries—Bermuda." Special considerations apply to the Company's Bermuda operations. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, other than spouses of Bermudians and individuals holding permanent resident certificates or working resident certificates, are not permitted to engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a work permit issued by the Bermuda government. A work permit is only granted or extended if the employer can show that, after a proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian or individual holding a permanent resident certificate or working resident certificate is available who meets the minimum standards for the position. The Bermuda government has a policy that places a six-year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to specified exemptions for persons deemed to be key employees. Currently, all of the Company's Bermuda based professional employees who require work permits have been granted work permits by the Bermuda government. 23 Table of Contents United Kingdom General Since December 1, 2001, the regulation of the financial services industry in the U.K. has been consolidated under the Financial Services Authority ("FSA U.K."). In addition, the regulatory regime in the U.K. must comply with certain European Union ("EU") directives binding on all EU member states and notably the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, largely for the purposes of harmonizing the regulatory regime for investment services and activities across the EEA. The FSA U.K. is the single statutory regulator responsible for regulating the financial services industry in the U.K., having the authority to oversee the carrying on of "regulated activities" (including deposit taking, insurance and reinsurance, investment management and most other financial services), with the purpose of maintaining confidence in the U.K. financial system, providing public understanding of the system, securing the proper degree of protection for consumers and helping to reduce financial crime. It is a criminal offense for any person to carry on a regulated activity in the U.K. unless that person is authorized by the FSA U.K. and has been granted permission to carry on that regulated activity, or otherwise falls under an exemption to such regulation. Insurance business in the U.K. falls into two main categories: long-term insurance (which is primarily investment related) and general insurance. Subject to limited exceptions, it is not possible for a new insurance company to be authorized in both long-term and general insurance business unless the long-term insurance business is restricted to reinsurance business. These two categories are both divided into "classes" (for example: permanent health and pension fund management are two classes of long-term insurance; damage to property and motor vehicle liability are two classes of general insurance). Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ("FSMA"), effecting or carrying out contracts of insurance, within a class of general or long-term insurance, by way of business in the U.K., constitutes a "regulated activity" requiring authorization. An authorized insurance company must have permission for each class of insurance business it intends to write. AGE is authorized to effect and carry out certain classes of non-life insurance, specifically: classes 14 (credit), 15 (suretyship) and 16 (miscellaneous financial loss). This scope of permission is sufficient to enable AGE to effect and carry out financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance. The insurance and reinsurance businesses of AGE are subject to close supervision by the FSA U.K. AGE also has permission to arrange and advise on deals in financial guarantees which it underwrites. The FSA U.K. carries out the prudential supervision of insurance companies through a variety of methods, including the collection of information from statistical returns, review of accountants' reports, visits to insurance companies and regular formal interviews. The FSA U.K. has adopted a risk-based and a principles-based approach to the supervision of insurance companies. Under its risk-based approach, the FSA U.K. periodically performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups carrying on business in the U.K., which varies in scope according to the risk profile of the insurer. The FSA U.K. performs its risk assessment broadly, by analyzing information which it receives during the normal course of its supervision, such as regular prudential returns on the financial position of the insurance company, or which it acquires through a series of meetings with senior management of the insurance company and by making use of its thematic work. After each risk assessment, the FSA U.K. will inform the insurer of its views on the insurer's risk profile. This will include details of any remedial action that the FSA U.K. requires and the likely consequences if this action is not taken. The FSA U.K. also maintains requirements for senior management arrangements and for systems and controls for insurance and reinsurance companies under its jurisdiction In addition, the FSA U.K. regards itself as a principles-based regulator and is placing an increased emphasis on risk identification and management in relation to the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance business in the U.K. The FSA U.K's rules include those on the sale of general insurance, known as insurance mediation, the General Prudential Sourcebook (GENPRU) and the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers (INSPRU) (collectively, the "Prudential Sourcebooks"), which include measures such as risk-based capital adequacy rules, including individual capital assessments. These are intended to align capital requirements with the risk profile of each insurance company and ensure adequate diversification of an insurer's or reinsurer's exposures to any credit risks of its 24 Table of Contents reinsurers. AGE has calculated its minimum required capital according to the FSA's individual capital adequacy criteria and is in compliance. AGUK has also been authorized to effect and carry out insurance classes 14, 15 and 16. Following discussions between the Company's management and the FSA U.K. relating to AGUK's large reinsurance exposures to its parent, AGC, and with respect to certain AGUK guaranteed transactions, AGUK's board of directors determined that it is not necessary to maintain both companies to write new business. Accordingly, Assured Guaranty has elected to place AGUK into run-off and has filed a run-off plan with the FSA U.K. Instead, the Company will utilize AGE as the entity from which to write business in the European Economic Area. Management has agreed with the FSA U.K. that any new business written by AGE will be guaranteed using a co-insurance structure pursuant to which AGE will co-insure municipal and infrastructure transactions with AGM, and structured finance transactions with AGC. AGE's financial guarantee will guarantee a proportionate share (expected to be approximately 5 to 7%) of the total exposure, and AGM or AGC will guarantee the remaining exposure under the transaction (subject to compliance with EEA licensing requirements). AGM or AGC will also issue a second-to-pay guaranty to cover AGE's financial guarantee. Assured Guaranty Finance Overseas Ltd. ("AGFOL"), a subsidiary of AGL, is authorized by the FSA U.K. as an "Exempt CAD" firm to carry out designated investment business activities in that it may "advise on investments (except on pension transfers and pension opt outs)" relating to most investment instruments. In addition, it may arrange or bring about transactions in investments and make "arrangements with a view to transactions in investments." It should be noted that AGFOL is not authorized as an insurer and does not itself take risk in the transactions it arranges or places, and may not hold funds on behalf of its customers. AGFOL's permissions also allow it to introduce business to AGC and AGM, so that AGFOL can arrange financial guaranties underwritten by AGC and AGM, even though AGFOL's role will be limited to acting as a pure introducer of business to AGC and AGM. Solvency Requirements The Prudential Sourcebooks require that non-life insurance companies such as AGUK and AGE maintain a margin of solvency at all times in respect of the liabilities of the insurance company, the calculation of which depends on the type and amount of insurance business a company writes. The method of calculation of the solvency margin (known as the minimum capital requirement) is set out in the Prudential Sourcebooks, and for these purposes, the insurer's assets and liabilities are subject to specified valuation rules. The Prudential Sourcebooks also require that AGUK and AGE calculate and share with the FSA U.K. their "enhanced capital requirement" based on risk-weightings applied to assets held and lines of business written. In recent years, the FSA U.K. had replaced the individual capital assessment for financial guaranty insurers with a "Benchmark" capital adequacy model imposed by the FSA U.K. The FSA U.K. currently is in the process of replacing the Benchmark model with an individual capital assessment for AGE. AGE has filed an individual capital adequacy submission; the FSA U.K. is evaluating such submission but has not yet issued its assessment for AGE. Since AGUK will not be writing new business, AGUK will not be filing an individual capital adequacy submission and will instead continue to be subject to the Benchmark model. Failure to maintain capital at least equal to the higher of the minimum capital requirement and the individual capital assessment, in the case of AGE, or the Benchmark model, in the case of AGUK, is one of the grounds on which the wide powers of intervention conferred upon the FSA U.K. may be exercised. To the extent that the amount of premiums for such classes exceed certain specified minimum thresholds, each insurance company writing property, credit and other specified categories of insurance or reinsurance business is required by the Prudential Sourcebooks to maintain an equalization reserve calculated in accordance with the provisions of INSPRU. These solvency requirements will need to be amended by December 2012 in order to implement the European Union's "Solvency II" directive (Directive 2009/138/EC), which itself is to be amended by the proposed "Omnibus II Directive." Among other things, that directive introduces a revised risk-based prudential regime which includes the following features: (i) assets and liabilities are generally to be valued at their market value; (ii) the amount of required economic capital is intended to ensure, 25 Table of Contents with a probability of 99.5%, that regulated firms are able to meet their obligations to policyholders and beneficiaries over the following 12 months; and (iii) reinsurance recoveries will be treated as a separate asset (rather than being netted off the underlying insurance liabilities). AGE has been accepted by the FSA U.K. into the pre-application process and has begun the process to apply for approval from the FSA U.K. for use of the "Partial Internal Model" methodology for calculation of its solvency capital requirement, which combines standard formulas developed by the FSA U.K. for calculation of certain capital requirements with an internally developed model for calculation of other capital requirements. In addition, an insurer (which includes a company conducting only reinsurance business) is required to perform and submit to the FSA U.K. a group capital adequacy return in respect of its ultimate insurance parent and, if different, its ultimate European Economic Area insurance parent. The calculation at the level of the ultimate European Economic Area insurance parent is required to show a positive result. There is no such requirement in relation to the report at the level of the ultimate insurance parent, although if the report at that level raises concerns, the FSA U.K. may take regulatory action. Public disclosure of the European Economic Area group calculation is also required. The purpose of this rule is to prevent leveraging of capital arising from involvements in other group insurance firms. Further, an insurer is required to report in its annual returns to the FSA U.K. all material related party transactions (e.g., intragroup reinsurance, whose value is more than 5% of the insurer's general insurance business amount). Restrictions on Dividend Payments U.K. company law prohibits each of AGUK and AGE from declaring a dividend to its shareholders unless it has "profits available for distribution." The determination of whether a company has profits available for distribution is based on its accumulated realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. While the U.K. insurance regulatory laws impose no statutory restrictions on a general insurer's ability to declare a dividend, the FSA U.K's capital requirements may in practice act as a restriction on dividends. Reporting Requirements U.K. insurance companies must prepare their financial statements under the Companies Act 2006, which requires the filing with Companies House of audited financial statements and related reports. In addition, U.K. insurance companies are required to file regulatory returns with the FSA U.K., which include a revenue account, a profit and loss account and a balance sheet in prescribed forms. Under sections of the Prudential Sourcebooks, audited regulatory returns must be filed with the FSA U.K. within two months and 15 days of the financial year end (or three months where the delivery of the return is made electronically). Supervision of Management The FSA U.K. closely supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, by which any appointment of persons to perform certain specified "controlled functions" within a regulated entity must be approved by the FSA U.K. Change of Control FSMA regulates the acquisition of "control" of any U.K. insurance company authorized under FSMA. Any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a U.K. authorized insurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance company or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired "control" for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. 26 Table of Contents Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire "control" of a U.K. authorized insurance company must give prior notification to the FSA U.K. of its intention to do so. The FSA U.K. then has three months to consider that person's application to acquire "control." In considering whether to approve such application, the FSA U.K. must be satisfied that both the acquirer is a "fit and proper" person to have "control" and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of "control." "Consumers" in this context includes all persons who may use the services of the authorized insurance company. Failure to make the relevant prior application could result in action being taken by the FSA U.K. Intervention and Enforcement The FSA U.K. has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an authorized person, culminating in the ultimate sanction of the removal of authorization to carry on a regulated activity. FSMA imposes on the FSA U.K. statutory obligations to monitor compliance with the requirements imposed by FSMA, and to investigate and enforce the provisions of FSMA related rules made by the FSA U.K. such as the Prudential Sourcebooks and breaches of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook. The FSA U.K. also has the power to prosecute criminal offenses arising under FSMA, and to prosecute insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act of 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations. The FSA U.K's stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all appropriate cases. "Passporting" EU directives allow AGFOL, AGUK and AGE to conduct business in EU states other than the United Kingdom in compliance with the scope of permission granted these companies by FSA U.K. without the necessity of additional licensing or authorization in other EU jurisdictions. This ability to operate in other jurisdictions of the EU on the basis of home state authorization and supervision is sometimes referred to as "passporting." Insurers may operate outside their home member state either on a "services" basis or on an "establishment" basis. Operating on a "services" basis means that the company conducts permitted businesses in the host state without having a physical presence there, while operating on an establishment basis means the company has a branch or physical presence in the host state. In both cases, a company remains subject to regulation by its home regulator although the company nonetheless may have to comply with certain local rules, such as where the company is operating on an "establishment" basis in which case, the local conduct of business (and other related) rules apply since the host state is regarded as a better place to detect and intervene in respect of suspected breaches relating to the branch within its territory. In such cases, the home state rules apply in respect of "organizational" and "prudential" obligations. In addition to EU member states, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein (members of the broader EEA) are jurisdictions in which this passporting framework applies. Each of AGUK, AGE and AGFOL is permitted to operate on a passport basis in various countries throughout the EEA. However, as previously discussed, Assured Guaranty has elected to place AGUK into run-off. Fees and Levies Each of AGUK and AGE is subject to FSA U.K. fees and levies based on its gross written premiums. The FSA U.K. also requires authorized insurers to participate in an investors' protection fund, known as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The Financial Services Compensation Scheme was established to compensate consumers of financial services, including the buyers of insurance, against failures in the financial services industry. Individual policyholders and small businesses may be compensated by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme when an authorized insurer is unable, or likely to be unable, to satisfy policyholder claims. Neither AGUK or AGE expects to write any insurance business that is protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 27 Table of Contents Tax Matters Taxation of AGL and Subsidiaries Bermuda Under current Bermuda law, there is no Bermuda income, corporate or profits tax or withholding tax, capital gains tax or capital transfer tax payable by AGL or its Bermuda Subsidiaries. AGL, AGC, and the Bermuda Subsidiaries have each obtained from the Minister of Finance under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to AGL, AGC or the Bermuda Subsidiaries or to any of their operations or their shares, debentures or other obligations, until March 28, 2016. This assurance is subject to the proviso that it is not to be construed so as to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda, or to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to any land leased to AGL, AGC or the Bermuda Subsidiaries. AGL, AGC and the Bermuda Subsidiaries each pay annual Bermuda government fees, and the Bermuda Subsidiaries and AGC pay annual insurance license fees. In addition, all entities employing individuals in Bermuda are required to pay a payroll tax and there are other sundry taxes payable, directly or indirectly, to the Bermuda government. The Bermuda Ministry of Finance announced in November 2010 that the standard assurance will be extended to 2035, but the required legislation has not yet been brought before the Bermuda Legislature. United States AGL has conducted and intends to continue to conduct substantially all of its foreign operations outside the U.S. and to limit the U.S. contacts of AGL and its foreign subsidiaries (except AGRO and AGE, which have elected to be taxed as U.S. corporations) so that they should not be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. A foreign corporation, such as AG Re, that is deemed to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States would be subject to U.S. income tax at regular corporate rates, as well as the branch profits tax, on its income which is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business, unless the corporation is entitled to relief under the permanent establishment provision of an applicable tax treaty, as discussed below. Such income tax, if imposed, would be based on effectively connected income computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that a foreign corporation may generally be entitled to deductions and credits only if it timely files a U.S. federal income tax return. AGL, AG Re and certain of the other foreign subsidiaries have and will continue to file protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis in order to preserve the right to claim income tax deductions and credits if it is ever determined that they are subject to U.S. federal income tax. The highest marginal federal income tax rates currently are 35% for a corporation's effectively connected income and 30% for the "branch profits" tax. Under the income tax treaty between Bermuda and the U.S. (the "Bermuda Treaty"), a Bermuda insurance company would not be subject to U.S. income tax on income found to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business unless that trade or business is conducted through a permanent establishment in the U.S. AG Re and the other Bermuda Subsidiaries currently intend to conduct their activities so that they do not have a permanent establishment in the U.S. An insurance enterprise resident in Bermuda generally will be entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty if (i) more than 50% of its shares are owned beneficially, directly or indirectly, by individual residents of the U.S. or Bermuda or U.S. citizens and (ii) its income is not used in substantial part, directly or indirectly, to make disproportionate distributions to, or to meet certain liabilities of, persons who are neither residents of either the U.S. or Bermuda nor U.S. citizens. Foreign insurance companies carrying on an insurance business within the U.S. have a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risk insured or reinsured by such companies. If AG Re or another Bermuda Subsidiary is considered to be engaged in the conduct of an insurance 28 Table of Contents business in the U.S. and is not entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty in general (because it fails to satisfy one of the limitations on treaty benefits discussed above), the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), could subject a significant portion of AG Re's or another Bermuda Subsidiary's investment income to U.S. income tax. Foreign corporations not engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., and those that are engaged in a U.S. trade or business with respect to their non-effectively connected income are nonetheless subject to U.S. income tax imposed by withholding on certain "fixed or determinable annual or periodic gains, profits and income" derived from sources within the U.S. (such as dividends and certain interest on investments), subject to exemption under the Code or reduction by applicable treaties. The Bermuda Treaty does not reduce the U.S. withholding rate on U.S.-sourced investment income. The standard non-treaty rate of U.S. withholding tax is currently 30%. The U.S. also imposes an excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums paid to foreign insurers with respect to risk of a U.S. person located wholly or partly within the U.S. or risks of a foreign person engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. which are located within the U.S. The rates of tax applicable to premiums paid are 4% for direct casualty insurance premiums and 1% for reinsurance premiums. AGUS, AGC, AG Financial Products Inc., Assured Guaranty Overseas U.S. Holdings Inc. and Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company are each a U.S. domiciled corporation and AGRO and AGE have elected to be treated as U.S. corporations for all U.S. federal tax purposes. As such, each corporation is subject to taxation in the U.S. at regular corporate rates. Taxation of Shareholders Bermuda Taxation Currently, there is no Bermuda capital gains tax, or withholding or other tax payable on principal, interests or dividends paid to the holders of the AGL common shares. United States Taxation This discussion is based upon the Code, the regulations promulgated thereunder and any relevant administrative rulings or pronouncements or judicial decisions, all as in effect on the date hereof and as currently interpreted, and does not take into account possible changes in such tax laws or interpretations thereof, which may apply retroactively. This discussion does not include any description of the tax laws of any state or local governments within the U.S. or any foreign government. The following summary sets forth the material U.S. federal income tax considerations related to the purchase, ownership and disposition of AGL's shares. Unless otherwise stated, this summary deals only with holders that are U.S. Persons (as defined below) who purchase their shares and who hold their shares as capital assets within the meaning of section 1221 of the Code. The following discussion is only a discussion of the material U.S. federal income tax matters as described herein and does not purport to address all of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that may be relevant to a particular shareholder in light of such shareholder's specific circumstances. For example, special rules apply to certain shareholders, such as partnerships, insurance companies, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, financial asset securitization investment trusts, dealers or traders in securities, tax exempt organizations, expatriates, persons that do not hold their securities in the U.S. dollar, persons who are considered with respect to AGL or any of its foreign subsidiaries as "United States shareholders" for purposes of the controlled foreign corporation ("CFC") rules of the Code (generally, a U.S. Person, as defined below, who owns or is deemed to own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of AGL or the stock of any of AGL's foreign subsidiaries entitled to vote (i.e., 10% U.S. Shareholders)), or persons who hold the common shares as part of a hedging or conversion transaction or as part of a short-sale or straddle. Any such shareholder should consult their tax advisor. If a partnership holds AGL's shares, the tax treatment of the partners will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Partners of a partnership owning AGL's shares should consult their tax advisers. 29 Table of Contents For purposes of this discussion, the term "U.S. Person" means: (i) a citizen or resident of the U.S., (ii) a partnership or corporation, created or organized in or under the laws of the U.S., or organized under any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the U.S. is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. Taxation of Distributions. Subject to the discussions below relating to the potential application of the CFC, related person insurance income ("RPII") and passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") rules, cash distributions, if any, made with respect to AGL's shares will constitute dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits of AGL (as computed using U.S. tax principles). Under current legislation, certain dividends paid to individual and certain other non-corporate shareholders before 2013 are eligible for reduced rates of tax. Dividends paid by AGL to corporate shareholders will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction. To the extent such distributions exceed AGL's earnings and profits, they will be treated first as a return of the shareholder's basis in the common shares to the extent thereof, and then as gain from the sale of a capital asset. AGL believes dividends paid by AGL on its common shares before 2013 to non-corporate holders will be eligible for reduced rates of tax up to a maximum of 15% as "qualified dividend income," provided that AGL is not a PFIC and certain other requirements, including stock holding period requirements, are satisfied. Qualified dividend income is currently subject to tax at capital gain rates. Note, however, that legislation has periodically been introduced in the U.S. Congress intending to limit the availability of this preferential dividend tax rate where dividends are paid by corporations resident in foreign jurisdictions deemed to be "tax haven" jurisdictions for this purpose. Classification of AGL or its Foreign Subsidiaries as a Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each 10% U.S. Shareholder (as defined below) of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and who owns shares in the foreign corporation, directly or indirectly through foreign entities, on the last day of the foreign corporation's taxable year on which it is CFC, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's "subpart F income," even if the subpart F income is not distributed. "Subpart F income" of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if 10% U.S. Shareholders own (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code (i.e., "constructively")) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of such foreign corporation, or more than 50% of the total value of all stock of such corporation on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a foreign insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. A "10% U.S. Shareholder" is a U.S. Person who owns (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively) at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. AGL believes that because of the dispersion of AGL's share ownership, provisions in AGL's organizational documents that limit voting power (these provisions are described in "Description of Share Capital") and other factors, no U.S. Person who owns shares of AGL directly or indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through foreign entities, or constructively), 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of shares of AGL or any of its foreign subsidiaries. It is possible, however, that the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. In addition, the direct and indirect subsidiaries of AGUS are characterized as CFCs and any subpart F income generated will be included in the gross income of the applicable domestic subsidiaries in the AGL group. 30 Table of Contents The RPII CFC Provisions. The following discussion generally is applicable only if the RPII of AG Re or any other foreign insurance subsidiary that has not made an election under section 953(d) of the Code to be treated as a U.S. corporation for all U.S. federal tax purposes or are CFCs owned directly or indirectly by AGUS (each a "Foreign Insurance Subsidiary" or collectively, with AG Re, the "Foreign Insurance Subsidiaries") determined on a gross basis, is 20% or more of the Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's gross insurance income for the taxable year and the 20% Ownership Exception (as defined below) is not met. The following discussion generally would not apply for any taxable year in which the Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's gross RPII falls below the 20% threshold or the 20% Ownership Exception is met. Although the Company cannot be certain, it believes that each Foreign Insurance Subsidiary was in prior years of operations and will for the foreseeable future either be below the 20% threshold or meet the requirements of 20% Ownership Exception for each tax year. RPII is any "insurance income" (as defined below) attributable to policies of insurance or reinsurance with respect to which the person (directly or indirectly) insured is a "RPII shareholder" (as defined below) or a "related person" (as defined below) to such RPII shareholder. In general, and subject to certain limitations, "insurance income" is income (including premium and investment income) attributable to the issuing of any insurance or reinsurance contract which would be taxed under the portions of the Code relating to insurance companies if the income were the income of a domestic insurance company. For purposes of inclusion of the RPII of a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary in the income of RPII shareholders, unless an exception applies, the term "RPII shareholder" means any U.S. Person who owns (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) any amount of AGL's common shares. Generally, the term "related person" for this purpose means someone who controls or is controlled by the RPII shareholder or someone who is controlled by the same person or persons which control the RPII shareholder. Control is measured by either more than 50% in value or more than 50% in voting power of stock applying certain constructive ownership principles. A Foreign Insurance Subsidiary will be treated as a CFC under the RPII provisions if RPII shareholders are treated as owning (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively) 25% or more of the shares of AGL by vote or value. RPII Exceptions. The special RPII rules do not apply if (i) at all times during the taxable year less than 20% of the voting power and less than 20% of the value of the stock of AGL (the "20% Ownership Exception") is owned (directly or indirectly through entities) by persons who are (directly or indirectly) insured under any policy of insurance or reinsurance issued by a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary or related persons to any such person, (ii) RPII, determined on a gross basis, is less than 20% of a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's gross insurance income for the taxable year (the "20% Gross Income Exception), (iii) a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary elects to be taxed on its RPII as if the RPII were effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business, and to waive all treaty benefits with respect to RPII and meet certain other requirements or (iv) a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary elects to be treated as a U.S. corporation and waive all treaty benefits and meet certain other requirements. The Foreign Insurance Subsidiaries do not intend to make either of these elections. Where none of these exceptions applies, each U.S. Person owning or treated as owning any shares in AGL (and therefore, indirectly, in a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary) on the last day of AGL's taxable year will be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its share of the RPII for the portion of the taxable year during which a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary was a CFC under the RPII provisions, determined as if all such RPII were distributed proportionately only to such U.S. Persons at that date, but limited by each such U.S. Person's share of a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's current-year earnings and profits as reduced by the U.S. Person's share, if any, of certain prior-year deficits in earnings and profits. The Foreign Insurance Subsidiaries intend to operate in a manner that is intended to ensure that each qualifies for either the 20% Gross Income Exception or 20% Ownership Exception. Computation of RPII. For any year in which a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary does not meet the 20% Ownership Exception or the 20% Gross Income Exception, AGL may also seek information from its shareholders as to whether beneficial owners of shares at the end of the year are U.S. Persons so that the RPII may be determined and apportioned among such persons; to the extent AGL is unable to determine whether a beneficial owner of shares is a U.S. Person, AGL may assume that such owner is not a U.S. Person, thereby increasing the per share RPII amount for all known RPII shareholders. The amount of RPII includable in the income of a RPII shareholder is based upon the net RPII income for 31 Table of Contents the year after deducting related expenses such as losses, loss reserves and operating expenses. If a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary meets the 20% Ownership Exception or the 20% Gross Income Exception, RPII shareholders will not be required to include RPII in their taxable income. Apportionment of RPII to U.S. Holders. Every RPII shareholder who owns shares on the last day of any taxable year of AGL in which a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary does not meet the 20% Ownership Exception or the 20% Gross Income Exception should expect that for such year it will be required to include in gross income its share of a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's RPII for the portion of the taxable year during which the Foreign Insurance Subsidiary was a CFC under the RPII provisions, whether or not distributed, even though it may not have owned the shares throughout such period. A RPII shareholder who owns shares during such taxable year but not on the last day of the taxable year is not required to include in gross income any part of the Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's RPII. Basis Adjustments. An RPII shareholder's tax basis in its common shares will be increased by the amount of any RPII the shareholder includes in income. The RPII shareholder may exclude from income the amount of any distributions by AGL out of previously taxed RPII income. The RPII shareholder's tax basis in its common shares will be reduced by the amount of such distributions that are excluded from income. Uncertainty as to Application of RPII. The RPII provisions are complex, have never been interpreted by the courts or the Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of RPII by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. These provisions include the grant of authority to the Treasury Department to prescribe "such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this subsection including regulations preventing the avoidance of this subsection through cross insurance arrangements or otherwise." Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to the Foreign Insurance Subsidiaries is uncertain. In addition, the Company cannot be certain that the amount of RPII or the amounts of the RPII inclusions for any particular RPII shareholder, if any, will not be subject to adjustment based upon subsequent IRS examination. Any prospective investor which does business with a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary and is considering an investment in common shares should consult his tax advisor as to the effects of these uncertainties. Information Reporting. Under certain circumstances, U.S. Persons owning shares (directly, indirectly or constructively) in a foreign corporation are required to file IRS Form 5471 with their U.S. federal income tax returns. Generally, information reporting on IRS Form 5471 is required by (i) a person who is treated as a RPII shareholder, (ii) a 10% U.S. Shareholder of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any tax year of the foreign corporation and who owned the stock on the last day of that year; and (iii) under certain circumstances, a U.S. Person who acquires stock in a foreign corporation and as a result thereof owns 10% or more of the voting power or value of such foreign corporation, whether or not such foreign corporation is a CFC. For any taxable year in which AGL determines that the 20% Gross Income Exception and the 20% Ownership Exception does not apply, AGL will provide to all U.S. Persons registered as shareholders of its shares a completed IRS Form 5471 or the relevant information necessary to complete the form. Failure to file IRS Form 5471 may result in penalties. Tax-Exempt Shareholders. Tax-exempt entities will be required to treat certain subpart F insurance income, including RPII, that is includible in income by the tax-exempt entity as unrelated business taxable income. Prospective investors that are tax exempt entities are urged to consult their tax advisors as to the potential impact of the unrelated business taxable income provisions of the Code. A tax-exempt organization that is treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder or a RPII Shareholder also must file IRS Form 5471 in certain circumstances. Dispositions of AGL's Shares. Subject to the discussions below relating to the potential application of the Code section 1248 and PFIC rules, holders of shares generally should recognize capital gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes on the sale, exchange or other disposition of shares in the same manner as on the sale, exchange or other disposition of any other shares held as capital assets. If 32 Table of Contents the holding period for these shares exceeds one year, any gain will be subject to tax at a current maximum marginal tax rate of 15% for individuals (subject to increase in 2013 without Congressional action) and 35% for corporations. Moreover, gain, if any, generally will be a U.S. source gain and generally will constitute "passive income" for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. Code section 1248 provides that if a U.S. Person sells or exchanges stock in a foreign corporation and such person owned, directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively, 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition when the corporation was a CFC, any gain from the sale or exchange of the shares will be treated as a dividend to the extent of the CFC's earnings and profits (determined under U.S. federal income tax principles) during the period that the shareholder held the shares and while the corporation was a CFC (with certain adjustments). The Company believes that because of the dispersion of AGL's share ownership, provisions in AGL's organizational documents that limit voting power and other factors that no U.S. shareholder of AGL should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively) 10% of more of the total voting power of AGL; to the extent this is the case this application of Code Section 1248 under the regular CFC rules should not apply to dispositions of AGL's shares. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. A 10% U.S. Shareholder may in certain circumstances be required to report a disposition of shares of a CFC by attaching IRS Form 5471 to the U.S. federal income tax or information return that it would normally file for the taxable year in which the disposition occurs. In the event this is determined necessary, AGL will provide a completed IRS Form 5471 or the relevant information necessary to complete the Form. Code section 1248 in conjunction with the RPII rules also applies to the sale or exchange of shares in a foreign corporation if the foreign corporation would be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes regardless of whether the shareholder is a 10% U.S. Shareholder or whether the 20% Ownership Exception or 20% Gross Income Exception applies. Existing proposed regulations do not address whether Code section 1248 would apply if a foreign corporation is not a CFC but the foreign corporation has a subsidiary that is a CFC and that would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation. The Company believes, however, that this application of Code section 1248 under the RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of AGL's shares because AGL will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The Company cannot be certain, however, that the IRS will not interpret the proposed regulations in a contrary manner or that the Treasury Department will not amend the proposed regulations to provide that these rules will apply to dispositions of common shares. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the effects of these rules on a disposition of common shares. Passive Foreign Investment Companies. In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC during a given year if (i) 75% or more of its gross income constitutes "passive income" (the "75% test") or (ii) 50% or more of its assets produce passive income (the "50% test"). If AGL were characterized as a PFIC during a given year, each U.S. Person holding AGL's shares would be subject to a penalty tax at the time of the sale at a gain of, or receipt of an "excess distribution" with respect to, their shares, unless such person (i) is a 10% U.S. Shareholder and AGL is a CFC or (ii) made a "qualified electing fund election" or "mark-to-market" election. It is uncertain that AGL would be able to provide its shareholders with the information necessary for a U.S. Person to make a qualified electing fund election. In addition, if AGL were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning common shares, such individual's heirs or estate would not be entitled to a "step-up" in the basis of the common shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. In general, a shareholder receives an "excess distribution" if the amount of the distribution is more than 125% of the average distribution with respect to the common shares during the three preceding taxable years (or shorter period during which the taxpayer held common shares). In general, the penalty tax is equivalent to an interest charge on taxes that are deemed due during the period the shareholder owned the common shares, computed by assuming that the excess distribution or gain (in the case of a sale) with respect to the common shares was taken in equal portion at the highest applicable tax rate on ordinary income throughout the shareholder's period of ownership. The interest charge is equal to the applicable rate imposed on underpayments of U.S. federal income tax for such period. In addition, a distribution paid by AGL to U.S. shareholders that is characterized as a 33 Table of Contents dividend and is not characterized as an excess distribution would not be eligible for reduced rates of tax as qualified dividend income with respect to dividends paid before 2013. For the above purposes, passive income generally includes interest, dividends, annuities and other investment income. The PFIC rules provide that income "derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation which is predominantly engaged in an insurance business... is not treated as passive income." The PFIC provisions also contain a look-through rule under which a foreign corporation shall be treated as if it "received directly its proportionate share of the income..." and as if it "held its proportionate share of the assets..." of any other corporation in which it owns at least 25% of the value of the stock. The insurance income exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. The Company expects, for purposes of the PFIC rules, that each of AGL's insurance subsidiaries will be predominantly engaged in an insurance business and is unlikely to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its insurance business in each year of operations. Accordingly, none of the income or assets of AGL's insurance subsidiaries should be treated as passive. Additionally, the Company expects that in each year of operations the passive income and assets of AGL's non-insurance subsidiaries will not exceed the 75% test or 50% test amounts in each year of operations with respect to the overall income and assets of AGL and its subsidiaries. Under the look-through rule AGL should be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets and to have received its proportionate share of the income of its direct and indirect subsidiaries for purposes of the 75% test and the 50% test. As a result, the Company believes that AGL was not and should not be treated as a PFIC. The Company cannot be certain, however, as there are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company and new regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming, that the IRS will not successfully challenge this position. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Foreign tax credit. If U.S. Persons own a majority of AGL's common shares, only a portion of the current income inclusions, if any, under the CFC, RPII and PFIC rules and of dividends paid by AGL (including any gain from the sale of common shares that is treated as a dividend under section 1248 of the Code) will be treated as foreign source income for purposes of computing a shareholder's U.S. foreign tax credit limitations. The Company will consider providing shareholders with information regarding the portion of such amounts constituting foreign source income to the extent such information is reasonably available. It is also likely that substantially all of the "subpart F income," RPII and dividends that are foreign source income will constitute either "passive" or "general" income. Thus, it may not be possible for most shareholders to utilize excess foreign tax credits to reduce U.S. tax on such income. Information Reporting and Backup Withholding on Distributions and Disposition Proceeds. Information returns may be filed with the IRS in connection with distributions on AGL's common shares and the proceeds from a sale or other disposition of AGL's common shares unless the holder of AGL's common shares establishes an exemption from the information reporting rules. A holder of common shares that does not establish such an exemption may be subject to U.S. backup withholding tax on these payments if the holder is not a corporation or non-U.S. Person or fails to provide its taxpayer identification number or otherwise comply with the backup withholding rules. The amount of any backup withholding from a payment to a U.S. Person will be allowed as a credit against the U.S. Person's U.S. federal income tax liability and may entitle the U.S. Person to a refund, provided that the required information is furnished to the IRS. Changes in U.S. Federal Income Tax Law Could Materially Adversely Affect AGL or AGL's Shareholders. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the U.S. but have certain U.S. connections. For example, legislation has been introduced in Congress to limit the deductibility of reinsurance premiums paid by U.S. companies to foreign affiliates. It is possible that this or similar legislation could be introduced in and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on AGL or AGL's shareholders. 34 Table of Contents Additionally, tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business or whether a company is a CFC or a PFIC or has RPII are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to an insurance company. Additionally, the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Description of Share Capital The following summary of AGL's share capital is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of Bermuda law, AGL's memorandum of association and its Bye-Laws, copies of which are incorporated by reference as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AGL's authorized share capital of $5,000,000 is divided into 500,000,000 shares, par value U.S. $0.01 per share, of which 183,982,391 common shares were issued and outstanding as of February 23, 2011. Except as described below, AGL's common shares have no pre-emptive rights or other rights to subscribe for additional common shares, no rights of redemption, conversion or exchange and no sinking fund rights. In the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the holders of AGL's common shares are entitled to share equally, in proportion to the number of common shares held by such holder, in AGL's assets, if any remain after the payment of all AGL's debts and liabilities and the liquidation preference of any outstanding preferred shares. Under certain circumstances, AGL has the right to purchase all or a portion of the shares held by a shareholder. See "—Acquisition of Common Shares by AGL" below. Voting Rights and Adjustments In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote with respect to their fully paid shares at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the common shares (and other of AGL's shares) of a shareholder are treated as "controlled shares" (as determined pursuant to section 958 of the Code) of any U.S. Person and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by AGL's issued and outstanding shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares owned by such U.S. Person shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5% of the voting power of all issued and outstanding shares, under a formula specified in AGL's Bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until there is no U.S. Person whose controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the voting power of all issued and outstanding shares and who generally would be required to recognize income with respect to AGL under the Code if AGL were a controlled foreign corporation as defined in the Code and if the ownership threshold under the Code were 9.5% (as defined in AGL's Bye-Laws as a "9.5% U.S. Shareholder"). In addition, AGL's Board of Directors may determine that shares held carry different voting rights when it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder; and (ii) avoid adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to AGL or any of its subsidiaries or any direct or indirect holder of shares or its affiliates. "Controlled shares" includes, among other things, all shares of AGL that such U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). The foregoing provision does not apply to ACE because it is not a U.S. Shareholder. Further, these provisions do not apply in the event one shareholder owns greater than 75% of the voting power of all issued and outstanding shares. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. AGL's Bye-laws provide that it will use its best efforts to notify shareholders of their voting interests prior to any vote to be taken by them. AGL's Board of Directors is authorized to require any shareholder to provide information for purposes of determining whether any holder's voting rights are to be adjusted, which may be information on beneficial share ownership, the names of persons having beneficial ownership of the 35 Table of Contents shareholder's shares, relationships with other shareholders or any other facts AGL's Board of Directors may deem relevant. If any holder fails to respond to this request or submits incomplete or inaccurate information, AGL's Board of Directors may eliminate the shareholder's voting rights. All information provided by the shareholder will be treated by AGL as confidential information and shall be used by AGL solely for the purpose of establishing whether any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder exists and applying the adjustments to voting power (except as otherwise required by applicable law or regulation). Restrictions on Transfer of Common Shares AGL's Board of Directors may decline to register a transfer of any common shares under certain circumstances, including if they have reason to believe that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of its shareholders or indirect holders of shares or its Affiliates may occur as a result of such transfer (other than such as AGL's Board of Directors considers de minimis). Transfers must be by instrument unless otherwise permitted by the Companies Act. The restrictions on transfer and voting restrictions described above may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Assured Guaranty. Acquisition of Common Shares by AGL Under AGL's Bye-Laws and subject to Bermuda law, if AGL's Board of Directors determines that any ownership of AGL's shares may result in adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to AGL, any of AGL's subsidiaries or any of AGL's shareholders or indirect holders of shares or its Affiliates (other than such as AGL's Board of Directors considers de minimis), AGL has the option, but not the obligation, to require such shareholder to sell to AGL or to a third party to whom AGL assigns the repurchase right the minimum number of common shares necessary to avoid or cure any such adverse consequences at a price determined in the discretion of the Board of Directors to represent the shares' fair market value (as defined in AGL's Bye-Laws). Other Provisions of AGL's Bye-Laws AGL's Board of Directors and Corporate Action AGL's Bye-Laws provide that AGL's Board of Directors shall consist of not less than three and not more than 21 directors, the exact number as determined by the Board of Directors. AGL's Board of Directors consists of eleven persons, and is divided into three classes. Currently, each elected director generally will serve a three year term, with termination staggered according to class. In February 2011, the Board of Directors unanimously approved a resolution to amend AGL's Bye-Laws to eliminate the classified board structure and provide for the annual election of all directors. At the Company's annual general meeting in May 2011, shareholders of the Company will be asked to vote on the resolution to amend the Bye-Laws. Shareholders may only remove a director for cause (as defined in AGL's Bye-Laws) at a general meeting, provided that the notice of any such meeting convened for the purpose of removing a director shall contain a statement of the intention to do so and shall be provided to that director at least two weeks before the meeting. Vacancies on the Board of Directors can be filled by the Board of Directors if the vacancy occurs in those events set out in AGL's Bye-Laws as a result of death, disability, disqualification or resignation of a director, or from an increase in the size of the Board of Directors. Generally under AGL's Bye-Laws, the affirmative votes of a majority of the votes cast at any meeting at which a quorum is present is required to authorize a resolution put to vote at a meeting of the Board of Directors. Corporate action may also be taken by a unanimous written resolution of the Board of Directors without a meeting. A quorum shall be at least one-half of directors then in office present in person or represented by a duly authorized representative, provided that at least two directors are present in person. 36 Table of Contents Shareholder Action At the commencement of any general meeting, two or more persons present in person and representing, in person or by proxy, more than 50% of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote at the meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In general, any questions proposed for the consideration of the shareholders at any general meeting shall be decided by the affirmative votes of a majority of the votes cast in accordance with the Bye-Laws. The Bye-Laws contain advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations for directors, including when proposals and nominations must be received and the information to be included. Amendment The Bye-Laws may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and by resolution of the shareholders. Voting of Non-U.S. Subsidiary Shares If AGL is required or entitled to vote at a general meeting of any of AG Re, AGFOL or any other of its directly held non-U.S. subsidiaries, AGL's Board of Directors shall refer the subject matter of the vote to AGL's shareholders and seek direction from such shareholders as to how they should vote on the resolution proposed by the non-U.S. subsidiary. AGL's Board of Directors in its discretion shall require substantially similar provisions are or will be contained in the bye-laws (or equivalent governing documents) of any direct or indirect non-U.S. subsidiaries other than U.K. and AGRO. Employees As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 350 employees. None of the Company's employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company believes that employee relations are satisfactory. Available Information The Company maintains an Internet web site at www.assuredguaranty.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its web site (under Investor Information/SEC Filings) the Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 (a) or 15 (d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The Company also makes available, free of charge, through its web site (under Investor Information/Corporate Governance) links to the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, its Code of Conduct and the charters for its Board Committees. The Company routinely posts important information for investors on its web site (under Investor Information). The Company uses this web site as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Information portion of the Company's web site, in addition to following the Company's press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, the Company's web site is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following information, together with the information contained in AGL's other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones the Company faces. However, these are the risks that the Company's management believes are material. The Company may face additional risks or uncertainties that are not presently known to the Company or that management currently deems immaterial, and such risks or uncertainties also may impair its business or results of operations. The risks discussed below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or business prospects. Risks Related to the Company's Expected Losses Recorded estimates of expected losses are subject to uncertainties and such estimates may not be adequate to cover potential paid claims. The financial guaranties issued by the Company's insurance subsidiaries insure the credit performance of the guaranteed obligations over an extended period of time, in some cases over 30 years, and in most circumstances, the Company has no right to cancel such financial guaranties. As a result, the Company's estimates of ultimate losses on a policy is subject to significant uncertainty over the life of the insured transaction due to the potential for significant variability in credit performance due to changing economic, fiscal and financial market variability over the long duration of most contracts. The determination of expected loss is an inherently subjective process involving numerous estimates, assumptions and judgments by management, using both internal and external data sources with regard to frequency, severity of loss, economic projections and other factors that affect credit performance. The Company does not use traditional actuarial approaches to determine its estimates of expected losses. Instead, the Company recognizes a loss and loss adjustment expense ("LAE") reserve on a financial guaranty contract when management expects that the present value of projected loss will exceed the deferred premium revenue for that contract. Actual losses will ultimately depend on future events or transaction performance. As a result, the Company's current estimates of probable and estimable losses may not reflect the Company's future ultimate incurred losses. If the Company's actual losses exceed its current estimate, this may result in adverse effects on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, business prospects, financial strength ratings and ability to raise additional capital. The uncertainty of expected losses has substantially increased since mid-2007, especially for RMBS transactions. Current expected losses in such transactions, as well as other mortgage related transactions, far exceed initial expected losses due to the historically high level of mortgage defaults across all U.S. regions. As a result, historical loss data may have limited value in predicting future RMBS losses. The Company's net par outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 for U.S. RMBS was $25.1 billion and $29.2 billion, respectively. For a discussion of the Company's review of its RMBS transactions, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Significant Risk Management Activities." The Company's estimates of expected RMBS losses takes into account expected recoveries from sellers and originators of the underlying residential mortgages. RMBS transaction documentation generally specifies that the seller or originator must repurchase a loan from the RMBS transaction if the seller or originator has breached its representations and warranties regarding that loan and if that breach materially and adversely affects (a) the interests of the trust, the trustee, the noteholders or the financial guaranty insurer in the mortgage loan or (b) the value of the mortgage loan. In order to enforce the repurchase remedy, the Company has been reviewing mortgage loan files for RMBS transactions that it has insured in order to identify the loans that the Company believes violate the seller's or originator's representations and warranties regarding the characteristics of such loans. The Company then submits or "puts back" such loans to the sellers or originators for repurchase from the RMBS transaction. The Company's efforts to put back loans for breaches of representations and warranties are subject to a number of difficulties. First, the review itself is time-consuming and costly and may not necessarily 38 Table of Contents result in a greater amount of recoveries than the costs incurred in this process. In addition, the sellers or originators may challenge the Company's ability to complete this process, including without limitation, by refusing to make the loan files available to the Company; asserting that there has been no breach or that any such breach is not material; or delaying or otherwise prolonging the repayment process. The Company may also need to rely on the trustee of the insured transaction to enforce this remedy on its behalf and the trustee may be unable or unwilling to pursue the remedy in a manner that is satisfactory to the Company. The amount of recoveries that the Company receives from the sellers or originators is also subject to considerable uncertainty, which may affect the amount of ultimate losses the Company pays on the transaction. For instance, the Company may determine to accept a negotiated settlement with a seller or originator in lieu of a repurchase of mortgage loans, in which case, current estimates of expected recoveries may differ from actual recoveries. Additionally, the Company may be unable to enforce the repurchase remedy because of a deterioration in the financial position of the seller or originator to a point where it does not have the financial wherewithal to pay. Furthermore, a portion of the expected recoveries are derived from the Company's estimates of the number of loans that will both default in the future and be found to have material breaches of representations and warranties. The Company has extrapolated future recoveries based on its experience to date, has discounted the success rate it has been experiencing in recognition of the uncertainties described herein and has also excluded any credit for repurchases by sellers or originators the Company believes do not have the financial wherewithal to pay. Although the Company believes that its methodology for extrapolating estimated recoveries is appropriate for evaluating the amount of potential recoveries, actual recoveries may differ materially from those estimated. The methodologies that the Company uses to estimate expected losses in general and for any specific obligation in particular may not be similar to methodologies used by the Company's competitors, counterparties or other market participants. Subsequent to the AGMH Acquisition, the Company harmonized the approaches it and AGMH use to establish loss reserves for RMBS and other transactions. For additional discussion of the Company's reserve methodologies, see Note 5 of "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Risks Related to the Company's Financial Strength and Financial Enhancement Ratings A downgrade of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of any of the Company's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries would adversely affect its business and prospects and, consequently, its results of operations and financial condition. The financial strength and financial enhancement ratings assigned by S&P and Moody's to the Company's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries provide the rating agencies' opinions of the insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders and cedants in accordance with the terms of the financial guaranties it has issued or the reinsurance agreements it has executed. The ratings also reflect qualitative factors, such as the rating agencies' opinion of an insurer's business strategy and franchise value, the anticipated future demand for its product, the composition of its portfolio, and its capital adequacy, profitability and financial flexibility. Issuers, investors, underwriters, credit derivative counterparties, ceding companies and others consider the Company's financial strength or financial enhancement ratings an important factor when deciding whether or not to utilize a financial guaranty or purchase reinsurance from the Company's insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries. A downgrade by a rating agency of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of the Company's subsidiaries could impair the Company's financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, business prospects or other aspects of the Company's business. The ratings assigned by the rating agencies that publish financial strength or financial enhancement ratings on the Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to frequent review and may be downgraded by a rating agency as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the rating agency's revised stress loss estimates for the Company's portfolio, adverse developments in the Company's or the subsidiaries' financial conditions or results of operations due to underwriting or investment losses or other factors, changes in the rating agency's outlook for the financial guaranty industry or in the markets in which the Company operates, or a revision in the rating agency's capital model or ratings methodology. Their reviews occur at any time and without notice to the Company and could result in a 39 Table of Contents decision to downgrade, revise or withdraw the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of AGL's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Since 2008, each of S&P and Moody's has reviewed and downgraded the financial strength ratings of AGL's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, including AGC, AGM and AG Re. In addition, the rating agencies have from time to time changed the ratings outlook for certain of the Company's subsidiaries to "negative" from "stable." The most recent rating action by Moody's on AGL and its subsidiaries took place on December 18, 2009, when Moody's concluded the financial strength rating review of AGC and AG Re that it had initiated on November 12, 2009 (when it downgraded the insurance financial strength ratings of AGC and AGUK from Aa2 to Aa3 and of AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company from Aa3 to A1, and placed all of the insurance companies' ratings on review for possible downgrade). In December 2009, Moody's confirmed the Aa3 insurance financial strength rating of AGC and AGUK, and the A1 insurance financial strength rating of AG Re, AGRO and Assured Guaranty Mortgage Insurance Company. At the same time, Moody's affirmed the Aa3 insurance financial strength rating of AGM. Moody's stated that it believed the Company's capital support transactions, including AGL's issuance of common shares in December 2009 that resulted in net proceeds of $573.8 million, $500.0 million of which was downstreamed to AGC, increased AGC's capital to a level consistent with Moody's expectations for a Aa3 rating, while leaving its affiliates with capital structures that Moody's believes are appropriate for their own ratings. However, Moody's ratings outlook for each such rating is negative because Moody's believes there is meaningful remaining uncertainty about the Company's ultimate credit losses and the demand for the Company's financial guaranty insurance and its competitive position once the municipal finance market normalizes. Management cannot assure you that Moody's will not take negative action on the Company's ratings. S&P lowered the counterparty credit and financial strength ratings of AGC, AGM and their respective insurance subsidiaries from AAA to AA+ on October 25, 2010. At the same time, S&P changed its outlook on such entities from negative to stable. Subsequently, on January 24, 2011, S&P released a publication entitled "Request for Comment: Bond Insurance Criteria," in which it requested comments on proposed changes to its bond insurance ratings criteria. In the Request for Comment, S&P notes that it could lower its financial strength ratings on existing investment-grade bond insurers (which include the Company's insurance subsidiaries) by one or more rating categories if the proposed bond insurance ratings criteria are adopted, unless those bond insurers raise additional capital or reduce risk. It is uncertain whether the Company would seek to, or be able to, obtain the additional capital or reduce the risk necessary to maintain its financial strength ratings at the AA level. The Company believes that these rating agency actions and proposals, including the uncertainty caused by the release of S&P's Request for Comment, have reduced the Company's new business opportunities and have also affected the value of the Company's product to issuers and investors. The insurance subsidiaries' financial strength ratings are an important competitive factor in the financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance markets. If the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of any of the Company's insurance subsidiaries were reduced below current levels, the Company expects it would have further adverse effect on its future business opportunities as well as the premiums it could charge for its insurance policies and consequently, a downgrade could harm the Company's new business production, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a downgrade may have a negative impact on the Company in respect of the transactions that it has insured or reinsurance that it has assumed. For example, a downgrade of one of the Company's insurance subsidiaries may result in increased claims under financial guaranties such subsidiary has issued. In particular, with respect to variable rate demand obligations for which a bank has agreed to provide a liquidity facility, a downgrade of the insurer may provide the bank with the right to give notice to bondholders that the bank will terminate the liquidity facility, causing the bondholders to tender their bonds to the bank. Bonds held by the bank accrue interest at a "bank bond rate" that is higher than the rate otherwise borne by the bond (typically the prime rate plus 2.00%—3.00%, often with a floor of 7%, and capped at the maximum legal limit). In the event that the bank holds such bonds for longer than a specified period of time, usually 90-180 days, the bank has the right additionally to demand accelerated repayment of bond principal, usually through payment of equal installments over a period of not less than five years. In the event that a municipal obligor is unable to 40 Table of Contents pay interest accruing at the bank bond rate or to pay principal during the shortened amortization period, a claim could be submitted to the insurer under its financial guaranty. As of the date of this filing, the Company has insured approximately $1.2 billion of par of variable rate demand obligations issued by municipal obligors rated BBB- or lower pursuant to the Company's internal rating. For a number of such obligations, a downgrade of the insurer below A+, in the case of S&P, or below A1, in the case of Moody's, triggers the ability of the bank to notify bondholders of the termination of the liquidity facility and to demand accelerated repayment of bond principal over a period of five to ten years. The specific terms relating to the rating levels that trigger the bank's termination right, and whether it is triggered by a downgrade by one rating agency or a downgrade by all rating agencies then rating the insurer, vary depending on the transaction. In addition, as discussed in greater detail under "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Commitments and Contingencies—Recourse Credit Facilities—2009 Strip Coverage Facility" within "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," a downgrade of AGM may result in early termination of leases under leveraged lease transactions insured by AGM. Upon early termination of a lease, to the extent the early termination payment owing to the lessor within such a transaction is not paid, a claim could be made to AGM under its financial guaranty. To mitigate this risk, AGM has entered into a $991.9 million (originally $1 billion) strip coverage liquidity facility with Dexia Crédit Local S.A. to finance the potential payment of claims under these policies. See "Risks Related to the AGMH Acquisition—The Company has substantial exposure to credit and liquidity risks from Dexia and the Belgian and French states" within these Risk Factors. Separately, in certain other transactions beneficiaries of financial guaranties issued by the Company's insurance subsidiaries may have the right to cancel the credit protection offered by the Company, which would result in the loss of future premium earnings and the reversal of any fair value gains or losses recorded by the Company. If AGC's financial strength or financial enhancement ratings were downgraded, the Company could be required to post collateral under certain of its credit derivative contracts or certain of the Company's counterparties could have a right to terminate such credit derivative contract. See "If AGC's financial strength or financial enhancement ratings were downgraded, the Company could be required to make termination payments or post collateral under certain of its credit derivative contracts, which could impair its liquidity, results of operations and financial condition" below. If AGM's financial strength or financial enhancement ratings were downgraded, AGM-insured GICs issued by the former AGMH subsidiaries that conducted AGMH's Financial Products Business (the "Financial Products Companies") may come due or may come due absent the provision of collateral by the GIC issuers. The Company relies on agreements pursuant to which Dexia has agreed to guarantee or lend certain amounts, or to post liquid collateral, in regards to AGMH's former financial products business. See "Risks Related to the AGMH Acquisition—The Company has substantial exposure to credit and liquidity risks from Dexia and the Belgian and French states." If AGC's financial strength or financial enhancement ratings were downgraded, the Company could be required to make termination payments or post collateral under certain of its credit derivative contracts, which could impair its liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Some of the Company's CDS have rating triggers that allow the CDS counterparty to terminate in the case of a rating downgrade. If the ratings of certain of the Company's insurance subsidiaries were reduced below certain levels and the Company's counterparty elected to terminate the CDS, the Company could be required to make a termination payment on certain of its credit derivative contracts, as determined under the relevant documentation. Under certain documents, the Company may have the right to cure the termination event by posting collateral, assigning its rights and obligations in respect of the transactions to a third party or seeking a third party guaranty of the obligations of the Company. The Company currently has three ISDA master agreements under which the applicable counterparty could elect to terminate transactions upon a rating downgrade of AGC: if AGC's ratings were downgraded to BBB- or Baa3, $90 million in par insured could be terminated by one counterparty; and if AGC's ratings were downgraded to BB+ or Ba1, approximately $2.8 billion in par insured could be terminated by the other two counterparties. None of AG Re, AGRO or AGM has any material CDS exposure subject to termination based on its rating. The Company does not believe that it can accurately estimate the termination payments it could be required to make if, as a result of any 41 Table of Contents such downgrade, a CDS counterparty terminated its CDS contracts with the Company. These payments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and financial condition. Under a limited number of other CDS contracts, the Company may be required to post eligible securities as collateral—generally cash or U.S. government or agency securities. For certain of such contracts, this requirement is based on a mark-to-market valuation, as determined under the relevant documentation, in excess of contractual thresholds that decline or are eliminated if the ratings of certain of the Company's insurance subsidiaries decline. Under other contracts, the Company has negotiated caps such that the posting requirement cannot exceed a certain amount. As of December 31, 2010, and without giving effect to thresholds that apply at current ratings, the amount of par that is subject to collateral posting is approximately $18.8 billion, for which the Company has agreed to post approximately $765.9 million of collateral. The Company may be required to post additional collateral from time to time, depending on its ratings and on the market values of the transactions subject to the collateral posting. Counterparties have agreed that for approximately $18.0 billion of that $18.8 billion, the maximum amount that the Company could be required to post is capped at $635 million at current rating levels (which amount is included in the $765.9 million as to which the Company has agreed to post). Such cap increases by $50 million to $685 million in the event AGC's ratings are downgraded to A+ or A3. The obligation to post collateral could have a negative effect on the Company's liquidity or cause it to convert assets into eligible securities on terms that are not economically attractive. The downgrade of the financial strength ratings of AG Re or of AGC gives reinsurance counterparties the right to recapture ceded business, which would lead to a reduction in the Company's unearned premium reserve, net income and future net income. Upon AG Re's downgrade by Moody's to A1, it became possible for primary insurance companies that had ceded business to AG Re to recapture a significant portion of the Company's in-force financial guaranty reinsurance business. Subject to the terms of each reinsurance agreement, the ceding company has the right to recapture business ceded to AG Re and assets representing substantially all of the statutory unearned premium and loss reserves (if any) associated with that business. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of statutory unearned premiums, which represents deferred revenue to the Company, subject to recapture was approximately $133.3 million. If this entire amount were recaptured, it would result in a corresponding one-time reduction to net income of approximately $13.0 million. In the case of AGC, one ceding company can recapture its portfolio at the company's current ratings and, if AGC were downgraded by Moody's to below Aa3 or by S&P below AA-, an additional portion of its in-force financial guaranty reinsurance business could be recaptured. Subject to the terms of each reinsurance agreement, the ceding company has the right to recapture business ceded to AGC and assets representing substantially all of the statutory unearned premium and loss reserves (if any) associated with that business. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of statutory unearned premiums subject to recapture was approximately $162.0 million. If this entire amount were recaptured, it would result in a corresponding one-time reduction to net income of approximately $23.0 million. Actions taken by the rating agencies with respect to capital models and rating methodology of the Company's business or changes in capital charges or downgrades of transactions within its insured portfolio may adversely affect its ratings, business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The rating agencies from time to time have evaluated the Company's capital adequacy under a variety of scenarios and assumptions. In the case of Moody's, as a result of changes in its stress loss assumptions related primarily to RMBS exposures, Moody's required the Company to raise additional capital in 2009 in order to maintain the rating levels of certain of its subsidiaries. More recently, as discussed in the "Overview" in "Item 1. Business" S&P released a publication entitled "Request for Comment: Bond Insurance Criteria," in which it proposed changes to its capital adequacy model including significant increases to its capital charges for both public finance and structured finance obligations. The rating agencies do not always supply clear guidance on their approach to assessing the Company's capital adequacy and the Company may disagree with the rating agencies' approach and assumptions. Changes in the rating agencies' capital models and rating methodology, including loss 42 Table of Contents assumptions and capital requirements for the Company's investment and insured portfolios, could require the Company to raise additional capital to maintain its current ratings levels, even if there are no adverse developments with respect to any specific investment or insured risk. The amount of such capital required may be substantial, and may not be available to the Company on favorable terms and conditions or at all. Accordingly, the Company cannot ensure that it will seek to, or be able to, complete the capital raising. The failure to raise additional required capital could result in a downgrade of the Company's ratings, which could be one or more ratings categories, and thus have an adverse impact on its business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Risks Related to the Company's Capital and Liquidity Requirements—The Company may require additional capital from time to time, including from soft capital and liquidity credit facilities, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms." The rating agencies assess each individual credit (including potential new credits) insured by the Company based on a variety of factors, including the nature of the credit, the nature of the support or credit enhancement for the credit, its tenor, and its expected and actual performance. This assessment determines the amount of capital the Company is required to maintain against that credit to maintain its financial strength ratings under the relevant rating agency's capital adequacy model. Factors influencing rating agencies' actions, including their assessments of individual credits, are beyond management's control and not always known to the Company. In the event of an actual or perceived deterioration in creditworthiness, a reduction in the underlying rating or a change in a rating agency's capital model methodology, that rating agency may require the Company to increase the amount of capital allocated to support the affected credits, regardless of whether losses actually occur, or against potential new business. Significant reductions in the rating agencies' assessments of credits in the Company's insured portfolio can produce significant increases in the amount of capital required for the Company to maintain its financial strength ratings under the rating agencies' capital adequacy models, which may require the Company to seek additional capital. We cannot assure you that the Company's capital position will be adequate to meet such increased capital requirements or that the Company will be able to secure additional capital, especially at a time of actual or perceived deterioration in the creditworthiness of new or existing credits. Unless the Company is able to increase the amount of its available capital, an increase in the amount of capital the Company is required to maintain its credit ratings under the rating agencies' capital adequacy models could result in a downgrade of the Company's financial strength ratings and could have an adverse effect on its ability to write new business. Since 2008, Moody's and S&P have announced the downgrade of, or other negative ratings actions with respect to, a large number of structured finance transactions, including certain transactions that the Company insures. Additional securities in the Company's insured portfolio may be reviewed and downgraded in the future. Moreover, the Company does not know which securities in its insured portfolio already have been reviewed by the rating agencies and if, or when, the rating agencies might review additional securities in its insured portfolio or review again securities that were previously reviewed and/or downgraded. Downgrades of the Company's insured credits will result in higher capital requirements for the Company under the relevant rating agency capital adequacy model. If the additional amount of capital required to support such exposures is significant, the Company may need to undertake certain actions in order to maintain its ratings, including, but not limited to, raising additional capital (which, if available, may not be available on terms and conditions that are favorable to the Company); curtailing new business; or paying to transfer a portion of its in-force business to generate rating agency capital. If the Company is unable to complete any of these capital initiatives, it could suffer ratings downgrades. These capital actions or ratings downgrades could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, ability to write new business or competitive positioning. Risks Related to the AGMH Acquisition The Company has exposure through financial guaranty insurance policies to AGMH's former financial products business, which the Company did not acquire. AGMH, through its former Financial Products Companies, offered AGM-insured GICs and other investment agreements, including medium term notes ("MTNs"). In connection with the AGMH 43 Table of Contents Acquisition, AGMH and its affiliates transferred their ownership interests in the Financial Products Companies to Dexia Holdings. Even though AGMH no longer owns the Financial Products Companies, AGM's guaranties of the GICs and MTNs and other guaranties related to AGM's MTN business and leveraged lease business generally remain in place. While Dexia and AGMH have entered into a number of agreements pursuant to which Dexia has assumed the credit and liquidity risks associated with AGMH's former Financial Products Business, AGM is still subject to risks in the event Dexia fails to perform. If AGM is required to pay any amounts on or post collateral in respect of financial products issued or executed by the Financial Products Companies, AGM is subject to the risk that (a) it will not receive the guaranty payment from Dexia on a timely basis or at all or (b) the GICs will not be paid from funds received from Dexia or the Belgian state and/or the French state on a timely basis or at all, in which case AGM itself will be required to make the payment under its financial guaranty policies. See "—The Company has substantial exposure to credit and liquidity risks from Dexia and the Belgian and French states." For a description of the agreements entered into with Dexia, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity Arrangements with respect to AGMH's former Financial Products Business." The Company has substantial exposure to credit and liquidity risks from Dexia and the Belgian and French states. Dexia and the Company have entered into a number of agreements intended to protect the Company from having to pay claims on AGMH's former Financial Products Business, which the Company did not acquire. Dexia has agreed to guarantee certain amounts, lend certain amounts or post liquid collateral for or in respect of AGMH's former Financial Products Business. Dexia SA and Dexia Crédit Local S.A. ("DCL"), jointly and severally, have also agreed to indemnify the Company for losses associated with AGMH's former Financial Products Business, including the ongoing Department of Justice and SEC investigations of such business. In addition, the majority of the assets supporting the insured GIC liabilities that constitute part of the former Financial Products Business benefits from a guarantee from the Belgian and French states. Furthermore, DCL, acting through its New York Branch, is providing a commitment of up to $991.9 million (originally $1 billion) under a strip coverage liquidity facility in order to make loans to AGM to finance the payment of claims under certain financial guaranty insurance policies issued by AGM or its affiliate that relate to the equity strip portion of leveraged lease transactions insured by AGM. The equity strip portion of the leveraged lease transactions is part of AGMH's financial guaranty business, which the Company did acquire. However, in connection with the AGMH Acquisition, DCL agreed to provide AGM with financing so that AGM could fund its payment of claims made under financial guaranty policies issued in respect of this portion of the business, because the amount of such claims could be quite large and are generally payable within a short time after AGM receives them. For a description of the agreements entered into with Dexia and a further discussion of the risks that these agreements are intended to protect against, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity Arrangements with respect to AGMH's former Financial Products Business." Despite the execution of such documentation, the Company remains subject to the risk that Dexia and even the Belgian state and/or the French state may not make payments or securities available (a) on a timely basis, which is referred to as "liquidity risk," or (b) at all, which is referred to as "credit risk," because of the risk of default. Even if Dexia and/or the Belgian state or the French state have sufficient assets to pay, lend or post as collateral all amounts when due, concerns regarding Dexia's or such states' financial condition or willingness to comply with their obligations could cause one or more rating agencies to view negatively the ability or willingness of Dexia or such states to perform under their various agreements and could negatively affect the Company's ratings. Furthermore, any delay in exercising remedies could require AGM to pay claims, and in some cases significant claims, in a relatively short period of time. Any failure of AGM to pay these claims under its guaranties could negatively affect AGM's rating and future business prospects. 44 Table of Contents AGMH and its subsidiaries could be subject to non-monetary consequences arising out of litigation associated with AGMH's former financial products business, which the Company did not acquire. As noted under "Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Proceedings Related to AGMH's Former Financial Products Business," in February 2008, AGMH received a "Wells Notice" from the staff of the Philadelphia Regional Office of the SEC relating to an ongoing industry-wide investigation concerning the bidding of municipal GICs and other municipal derivatives. The Wells Notice indicates that the SEC staff is considering recommending that the SEC authorize the staff to bring a civil injunctive action and/or institute administrative proceedings against AGMH, alleging violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and Section 17(a) of the Securities Act. In addition, in November 2006, AGMH received a subpoena from the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice issued in connection with an ongoing criminal investigation of bid rigging of awards of municipal GICs and other municipal derivatives. While these proceedings relate to AGMH's former Financial Products Business, which the Company did not acquire, they are against entities which the Company did acquire. Furthermore, while Dexia SA and DCL, jointly and severally, have agreed to indemnify the Company against liability arising out of these proceedings, such indemnification might not be sufficient to fully hold the Company harmless against any injunctive relief or criminal sanction that is imposed against AGMH or its subsidiaries. Restrictions on the conduct of AGM's business subsequent to the AGMH Acquisition place limits on the Company's operating and financial flexibility. Under the Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to conduct AGM's business subject to certain operating and financial constraints. These restrictions will generally continue for three years after the closing of the AGMH Acquisition, or July 1, 2012. Among other items, the Company has agreed that AGM will not repurchase, redeem or pay any dividends on any class of its equity interests unless at that time: •AGM is rated at least AA- by S&P and Aa3 by Moody's (if such rating agencies still rate financial guaranty insurers generally) and if the aggregate amount of dividends paid in any year does not exceed 125% of AGMH's debt service requirements for that year; or •AGM has received prior rating agency confirmation that such action would not cause AGM's current ratings to be downgraded due to such action. These agreements limit Assured Guaranty's operating and financial flexibility with respect to the operations of AGM. For further discussion of these restrictions, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations——Acquisition of AGMH." Risks Related to the Financial, Credit and Financial Guaranty Markets Improvement in the recent difficult conditions in the U.S. and world-wide financial markets has been gradual, and the Company's business, liquidity, financial condition and stock price may continue to be adversely affected. The Company's loss reserves, profitability, financial position, investment portfolio, cash flow, statutory capital and stock price could be materially affected by the U.S. and global markets. In the U.S., although the National Bureau of Economic Research has declared the recent financial crisis to be over, and the Federal Reserve has shifted its focus from rescuing the U.S. financial system to economic stimulus, the unemployment rate remains high, housing prices have not yet stabilized and the consumer confidence index remains below the long-term average. Internationally, Greece and Ireland have recently accepted rescue packages from EU funds and the International Monetary Fund, and the budget deficits in Portugal, combined with its low growth rate, lead many economists to believe it may need a bailout as well. The Company and its financial position will continue to be subject to risk of the global financial and economic conditions that could materially and negatively affect its ability to access the capital markets, the cost of the Company's debt, the demand for its products, the amount of losses incurred on transactions it guarantees, the value of its investment portfolio, its financial ratings and its stock price. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans the Company insures or holds and as well as the Company's counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts may default on their obligations to the Company due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting structured finance securities that the Company's insurance subsidiaries have guaranteed may deteriorate, causing 45 Table of Contents these securities to incur losses. These losses could be significantly more than the Company expects and could materially adversely impact its financial strength, ratings and prospects for future business. The Company's access to funds under its credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Company if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Company and other borrowers within a short period of time. In addition, consolidation of financial institutions could lead to increased credit risk. In addition, the Company's ability to raise equity, debt or other forms of capital is subject to market demand and other factors that could be affected by global financial market conditions. If the Company needed to raise capital to maintain its ratings and was unable to do so because of lack of demand for its securities, it could be downgraded by the rating agencies, which would impair the Company's ability to write new business. Some of the state and local governments and entities that issue obligations the Company insures are experiencing unprecedented budget deficits and revenue shortfalls that could result in increased credit losses or impairments and capital charges on those obligations. The economic crisis caused many state and local governments that issue some of the obligations the Company insures to experience significant budget deficits and revenue collection shortfalls that require them to significantly raise taxes and/or cut spending in order to satisfy their obligations. While the U.S. government has provided some financial support to state and local governments, significant budgetary pressures remain. If the issuers of the obligations in the Company's public finance portfolio do not have sufficient funds to cover their expenses and are unable or unwilling to raise taxes, decrease spending or receive federal assistance, the Company may experience increased levels of losses or impairments on its public finance obligations, which would materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's risk of loss on and capital charges for municipal credits could also be exacerbated by rating agency downgrades of municipal credit ratings. A downgraded municipal issuer may be unable to refinance maturing obligations or issue new debt, which could exacerbate the municipality's inability to service its debt. Downgrades could also affect the interest rate that the municipality must pay on its variable rate debt or for new debt issuance. Municipal credit downgrades, as with other downgrades, result in an increase in the capital charges the rating agencies assess when evaluating the Company's capital adequacy in their rating models. Significant municipal downgrades could result in higher capital requirements for the Company in order to maintain its financial strength ratings. In addition, obligations supported by specified revenue streams, such as revenue bonds issued by toll road authorities, municipal utilities or airport authorities, may be adversely affected by revenue declines resulting from reduced demand, changing demographics or other factors associated with an economy in which unemployment remains high, housing prices have not yet stabilized and growth is slow. These obligations, which may not necessarily benefit from financial support from other tax revenues or governmental authorities, may also experience increased losses if the revenue streams are insufficient to pay scheduled interest and principal payments. Adverse developments in the credit and financial guaranty markets have substantially increased uncertainty in the Company's business and may materially and adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and future business. Since mid-2007 there have been several adverse developments in the credit and financial guaranty markets that have affected the Company's business, financial condition, results of operation and future business prospects. In particular, U.S. residential mortgages and RMBS transactions that were issued in the 2005-2007 period have generated losses far higher than originally expected and higher than experienced in the last several decades. This poor performance led to price declines for RMBS securities and the rating agencies downgrading thousands of such transactions. In addition, the material amount of the losses that have been incurred by insurers of these mortgages, such as Fannie Mae or private mortgage insurers, by guarantors of RMBS securities or of securities that contain significant amounts of RMBS, and by purchasers of RMBS securities have resulted in the insolvency or significant financial impairment of many of these companies. 46 Table of Contents As a result of these adverse developments, investors have significant concerns about the financial strength of credit enhancement providers, which has substantially reduced the demand for financial guaranties in many fixed income markets. These concerns as well as the uncertain economic environment may adversely affect the Company in a number of ways, including requiring it to raise and hold more capital, reducing the demand for its direct guaranties or reinsurance, limiting the types of guaranties the Company offers, encouraging new competitors, making losses harder to estimate, making its results more volatile and making it harder to raise new capital. Furthermore, rating agencies and regulators could enhance the financial guaranty insurance company capital requirements, regulations or restrictions on the types or amounts of business conducted by monoline financial guaranty insurers. Changes in interest rate levels and credit spreads could adversely affect demand for financial guaranty insurance as well as the Company's financial condition. Demand for financial guaranty insurance generally fluctuates with changes in market credit spreads. Credit spreads, which are based on the difference between interest rates on high-quality or "risk free" securities versus those on lower-rated or uninsured securities, fluctuate due to a number of factors and are sensitive to the absolute level of interest rates, current credit experience and investors' willingness to purchase lower-rated or higher-rated securities. When interest rates are low or when the market is relatively less risk averse, the credit spread between high-quality or insured obligations versus lower-rated or uninsured obligations typically narrows or is "tight" and, as a result, financial guaranty insurance typically provides lower interest cost savings to issuers than it would during periods of relatively wider credit spreads. As a result, issuers are less likely to use financial guaranties on their new issues when credit spreads are tight, resulting in decreased demand or premiums obtainable for financial guaranty insurance, and thus a reduction in the Company's results of operations. Conversely, in a deteriorating credit environment, credit spreads increase and become "wide", which increases the interest cost savings that financial guaranty insurance may provide and can result in increased demand for financial guaranties by issuers. However, if the weakening credit environment is associated with economic deterioration, the Company's insured portfolio could generate claims and loss payments in excess of normal or historical expectations. In addition, increases in market interest rate levels could reduce new capital markets issuances and, correspondingly, a decreased volume of insured transactions. Competition in the Company's industry may adversely affect its revenues. As described in greater detail under "Competition" in "Item 1. Business," the Company can face competition, either in the form of current or new providers of credit enhancement or in terms of alternative structures or pricing competition. Increased competition could have an adverse effect on the Company's insurance business. The Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company's reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The principal functional currencies of AGL's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries include the U.S. dollar and U.K. sterling. Exchange rate fluctuations, which have been exacerbated by the recent turmoil in the European financial markets, relative to the functional currencies may materially impact the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Many of the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency, which exposes the Company to changes in currency exchange rates. In addition, locally-required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk are the British pound sterling and the European Union euro. The Company cannot accurately predict the nature or extent of future exchange rate variability between these currencies or relative to the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent periods and may continue to do so in the future, which could adversely impact the Company's financial position results of operations and cash flows. 47 Table of Contents The Company's international operations expose it to less predictable credit and legal risks. The Company pursues new business opportunities in international markets and currently operates in various countries in Europe and the Asia Pacific region. The underwriting of obligations of an issuer in a foreign country involves the same process as that for a domestic issuer, but additional risks must be addressed, such as the evaluation of foreign currency exchange rates, foreign business and legal issues, and the economic and political environment of the foreign country or countries in which an issuer does business. Changes in such factors could impede the Company's ability to insure, or increase the risk of loss from insuring, obligations in the countries in which it currently does business and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities in other countries. The Company's investment portfolio may be adversely affected by credit, interest rate and other market changes. The Company's operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of its investment portfolio which consists primarily of fixed-income securities and short-term investments. As of December 31, 2010, the fixed-income securities and short-term investments had a fair value of approximately $10.4 billion. Credit losses and changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on its shareholders' equity and investment income. Credit losses result in realized losses on the Company's investment portfolio, which reduce shareholders' equity. Changes in interest rates can affect both shareholders' equity and investment income. For example, if interest rates decline, funds reinvested will earn less than expected, reducing the Company's future investment income compared to the amount it would earn if interest rates had not declined. However, the value of the Company's fixed-rate investments would generally increase if interest rates decreased, resulting in an unrealized gain on investments included in net income and an increase in shareholders' equity. Conversely, if interest rates increase, the value of the investment portfolio will be reduced, resulting in unrealized losses that the Company is required to include in shareholders' equity as a change in accumulated other comprehensive income. Accordingly, interest rate increases could reduce the Company's shareholders' equity. As of December 31, 2010, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 15.0% of the Company's fixed-income securities and short-term investments. Changes in interest rates can expose the Company to significant prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring the Company to reinvest the proceeds at then-current market rates. During periods of rising interest rates, the frequency of prepayments generally decreases. Mortgage-backed securities having an amortized value less than par (i.e., purchased at a discount to face value) may incur a decrease in yield or a loss as a result of slower prepayment. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control. The Company does not engage in active management, or hedging, of interest rate risk, and may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. The market value of the investment portfolio also may be adversely affected by general developments in the capital markets, including decreased market liquidity for investment assets, market perception of increased credit risk with respect to the types of securities held in the portfolio, downgrades of credit ratings of issuers of investment assets and/or foreign exchange movements which impact investment assets. In addition, the Company invests in securities insured by other financial guarantors, the market value of which may be affected by the rating instability of the relevant financial guarantor. Risks Related to the Company's Capital and Liquidity Requirements The Company may require additional capital from time to time, including from soft capital and liquidity credit facilities, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. The Company's capital requirements depend on many factors, including its in-force book of business and rating agency capital requirements. For example, as discussed in "Risks Related to the Company's Financial Strength and Financial Enhancement Ratings," S&P noted in its January 24, 2011 Request for Comment, that it could lower its financial strength ratings on existing investment-grade bond insurers (which include the Company's insurance subsidiaries) by one or more rating categories if 48 Table of Contents the proposed bond insurance ratings criteria are adopted, unless those bond insurers raise additional capital or reduce risk. The Company also needs capital to pay losses on its insured portfolio and to write new business. Failure to raise additional capital as needed may result in the Company being unable to write new business and may result in the ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries being downgraded by one or more ratings agency. The Company's access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of such financing, is dependent on various factors, including the market supply of such financing, the Company's long-term debt ratings and insurance financial strength ratings and the perceptions of its financial strength and the financial strength of its insurance subsidiaries. The Company's debt ratings are in turn influenced by numerous factors, such as financial leverage, balance sheet strength, capital structure and earnings trends. If the Company's need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for the Company to raise the necessary capital. In light of the uncertainty over the Company's financial strength ratings, the Company expects that it may be difficult to renew or extend existing credit facilities as they expire or run off and any such renewal or extension may involve higher pricing than would typically apply. Future capital raises for equity or equity-linked securities, such as the Company's June 2009 issuance of mandatorily convertible senior notes, could also result in dilution to the Company's shareholders. In addition, some securities that the Company could issue, such as preferred stock or securities issued by the Company's operating subsidiaries, may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of its common shares. Financial guaranty insurers and reinsurers typically rely on providers of lines of credit, credit swap facilities and similar capital support mechanisms (often referred to as "soft capital") to supplement their existing capital base, or "hard capital." The ratings of soft capital providers directly affect the level of capital credit which the rating agencies give the Company when evaluating its financial strength. The Company intends to maintain soft capital facilities with providers having ratings adequate to provide the Company's desired capital credit, although no assurance can be given that one or more of the rating agencies will not downgrade or withdraw the applicable ratings of such providers in the future. In addition, the Company may not be able to replace a downgraded soft capital provider with an acceptable replacement provider for a variety of reasons, including if an acceptable replacement provider is willing to provide the Company with soft capital commitments or if any adequately-rated institutions are actively providing soft capital facilities. Furthermore, the rating agencies may in the future change their methodology and no longer give credit for soft capital, which may necessitate the Company having to raise additional capital in order to maintain its ratings. An increase in the Company's subsidiaries' risk-to-capital ratio or leverage ratio may prevent them from writing new insurance. Rating agencies and insurance regulatory authorities impose capital requirements on the Company's insurance subsidiaries. These capital requirements, which include risk-to-capital ratios, leverage ratios and surplus requirements, limit the amount of insurance that the Company's subsidiaries may write. The Company's insurance subsidiaries have several alternatives available to control their risk-to-capital ratios and leverage ratios, including obtaining capital contributions from the Company, purchasing reinsurance or entering into other loss mitigation agreements, or reducing the amount of new business written. However, a material reduction in the statutory capital and surplus of a subsidiary, whether resulting from underwriting or investment losses, a change in regulatory capital requirements or otherwise, or a disproportionate increase in the amount of risk in force, could increase a subsidiary's risk-to-capital ratio or leverage ratio. This in turn could require that subsidiary to obtain reinsurance for existing business (which may not be available, or may be available on terms that the Company considers unfavorable), or add to its capital base to maintain its financial strength ratings. Failure to maintain regulatory capital levels could limit that subsidiary's ability to write new business. The Company's holding companies' ability to meet its obligations may be constrained. Each of AGL, AGMH and AGUS is a holding company and, as such, has no direct operations of its own. Neither AGL nor AGUS expects to have any significant operations or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its subsidiaries. However, AGL's and AGUS' insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory, contractual and rating agency restrictions limiting their ability to declare and to 49 Table of Contents pay dividends and make other payments to AGL. Such dividends and permitted payments are expected to be AGL's and AGUS' primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including operating expenses, any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to its shareholders. Accordingly, if AGL's and AGUS' insurance subsidiaries cannot pay sufficient dividends or make other permitted payments to them at the times or in the amounts that they require, it would have an adverse effect on AGL's and AGUS' ability to satisfy their ongoing cash requirements and on their ability to pay dividends to shareholders. If AGL does not pay dividends, the only return on an investment in AGL's shares, if at all, would come from any appreciation in the price of the common shares. Furthermore, in connection with the AGMH Acquisition, the Company has committed to the New York Insurance Department that AGM will not pay any dividends for a period of two years from the date of the AGMH Acquisition without its written approval. It also covenanted to Dexia that it would not repurchase, redeem or pay any dividends on any class of its equity interests for a period of three years from the date of the AGMH Acquisition unless AGM had certain minimum ratings from the rating agencies and the aggregate amount of dividends paid in any year does not exceed 125% of AGMH's debt service requirements for that year. See "Risks Related to the AGMH Acquisition—Restrictions on the conduct of AGM's business subsequent to the AGMH Acquisition place limits on the Company's operating and financial flexibility." In addition, to the extent that dividends are paid from AGL's U.S. subsidiaries, they presently would be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%. AG Re's and AGRO's dividend distribution are governed by Bermuda law. Under Bermuda law, dividends may only be paid if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the company is, or would after the payment be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. Distributions to shareholders may also be paid out of statutory capital, but are subject to a 15% limitation without prior approval of the Authority. Dividends are limited by requirements that the subject company must at all times (i) maintain the minimum solvency margin required under the Insurance Act and the enhanced capital requirement applicable to it and (ii) have relevant assets in an amount at least equal to 75% of relevant liabilities, both as defined under the Insurance Act. AG Re, as a Class 3B insurer, is prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year's statutory balance sheet) unless it files (at least seven days before payment of such dividends) with the Authority an affidavit stating that it will continue to meet the required margins. Any distribution which results in a reduction of 15% of more of the company's total statutory capital, as set out in its previous year's financial statements, would require the prior approval of the Authority. The ability of AGL and its subsidiaries to meet their liquidity needs may be limited. Each of AGL, AGUS and AGMH requires liquidity, either in the form of cash or in the ability to easily sell investment assets for cash, in order to meet its payment obligations, including, without limitation, its operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on common shares, and to make capital investments in operating subsidiaries. The Company's operating subsidiaries require substantial liquidity in order to meet their respective payment and/or collateral posting obligations, including under financial guaranty insurance policies, CDS contracts or reinsurance agreements. They also require liquidity to pay operating expenses, reinsurance premiums, dividends to AGUS or AGMH for debt service and dividends to the Company, as well as, where appropriate, to make capital investments in their own subsidiaries. AGL anticipates that its liquidity needs will be met by (1) the ability of its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to AGL, AGUS and AGMH, (2) external financings, (3) investment income from its invested assets and (4) current cash and short-term investments. The Company expects that its subsidiaries' need for liquidity will be met by (1) the operating cash flows of such subsidiaries, (2) external financings, (3) investment income from their invested assets and (4) proceeds derived from the sale of its investment portfolio, a significant portion of which is in the form of cash or short-term investments. All of these sources of liquidity are subject to market, regulatory or other factors that may impact the Company's liquidity position at any time. As discussed above, AGL's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory, contractual and rating agency restrictions limiting their ability to declare and to pay dividends and make other payments to AGL. As further 50 Table of Contents noted above, external financing may or may not be available to AGL or its subsidiaries in the future on satisfactory terms. In addition, investment income at AGL and its subsidiaries may fluctuate based on interest rates, defaults by the issuers of the securities AGL or its subsidiaries hold in their respective investment portfolios, or other factors that the Company does not control. Finally, the value of the Company's investments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, credit risk and capital market conditions and therefore may adversely affect the Company's potential ability to sell investments quickly and the price which the Company might receive for those investments. There can be no assurance that the liquidity of AGL and its subsidiaries will not be adversely affected by adverse market conditions, changes in insurance regulatory law or changes in general economic conditions. Similarly, there can be no assurance that existing liquidity facilities will prove adequate to the needs of AGL and its subsidiaries or that adequate liquidity will be available on favorable terms in the future. Risks Related to the Company's Business The Company's financial guaranty products may subject it to significant risks from individual or correlated credits. The Company is exposed to the risk that issuers of debt that it insures or other counterparties may default in their financial obligations, whether as a result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Similarly, the Company could be exposed to corporate credit risk if a corporation's securities are contained in a portfolio of collateralized debt obligations ("CDOs") it insures, or if the corporation or financial institution is the originator or servicer of loans, mortgages or other assets backing structured securities that the Company has insured. In addition, because the Company insures or reinsures municipal bonds, it can have significant exposures to single municipal risks. While the Company's risk of a complete loss, where it would have to pay the entire principal amount of an issue of bonds and interest thereon with no recovery, is generally lower than for corporate credits as most municipal bonds are backed by tax or other revenues, there can be no assurance that a single default by a municipality would not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. The Company's ultimate exposure to a single name may exceed its underwriting guidelines, and an event with respect to a single name may cause a significant loss. The Company seeks to reduce this risk by managing exposure to large single risks, as well as concentrations of correlated risks, through tracking its aggregate exposure to single names in its various lines of business, establishing underwriting criteria to manage risk aggregations, and utilizing reinsurance and other risk mitigation measures. The Company may insure and has insured individual public finance and asset-backed risks well in excess of $1 billion. Should the Company's risk assessments prove inaccurate and should the applicable limits prove inadequate, the Company could be exposed to larger than anticipated losses, and could be required by the rating agencies to hold additional capital against insured exposures whether or not downgraded by the rating agencies. The Company is exposed to correlation risk across the various assets the Company insures. During periods of strong macroeconomic performance, stress in an individual transaction generally occurs in a single asset class or for idiosyncratic reasons. During a broad economic downturn, a wider range of the Company's insured portfolio could be exposed to stress at the same time. This stress may manifest itself in ratings downgrades, which may require more capital, or in actual losses. In addition, while the Company has experienced catastrophic events in the past without material loss, such as the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 hurricane season, unexpected catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect upon the Company's insured portfolio and/or its investment portfolios. 51 Table of Contents Some of the Company's direct financial guaranty products may be riskier than traditional financial guaranty insurance. As of December 31, 2010, 19% of the Company's financial guaranty direct exposures have been executed as credit derivatives. Traditional financial guaranty insurance provides an unconditional and irrevocable guaranty that protects the holder of a municipal finance or structured finance obligation against non-payment of principal and interest, while credit derivatives provide protection from the occurrence of specified credit events, including non-payment of principal and interest. In general, the Company structures credit derivative transactions such that circumstances giving rise to its obligation to make payments are similar to that for financial guaranty policies and generally occur as losses are realized on the underlying reference obligation. The tenor of credit derivatives exposures, like exposure under financial guaranty insurance policies, is also generally for as long as the reference obligation remains outstanding. Nonetheless, credit derivative transactions are governed by ISDA documentation and operate differently from financial guaranty insurance policies. For example, the Company's control rights with respect to a reference obligation under a credit derivative may be more limited than when it issues a financial guaranty insurance policy on a direct primary basis. In addition, a credit derivative may be terminated for a breach of the ISDA documentation or other specific events, unlike financial guaranty insurance policies. In some of the Company's older credit derivative transactions, one such specified event is the failure of AGC to maintain specified financial strength ratings. If a credit derivative is terminated, the Company could be required to make a mark-to-market payment as determined under the ISDA documentation. In addition, under a limited number of credit derivative contracts, the Company may be required to post eligible securities as collateral, generally cash or U.S. government or agency securities, under specified circumstances. The need to post collateral under these transactions is generally based on mark-to-market valuation in excess of contractual thresholds. The particular thresholds decline if the Company's ratings decline. See "Risks Related to the Company's Financial Strength and Financial Enhancement Ratings—A downgrade of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of any of the Company's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries would adversely affect its business and prospects and, consequently, its results of operations and financial condition." Further downgrades of one or more of the Company's reinsurers could reduce the Company's capital adequacy and return on equity. At December 31, 2010, the Company had ceded approximately 9.4% of its principal amount of insurance outstanding to third party reinsurers. In evaluating the credits insured by the Company, securities rating agencies allow capital charge "credit" for reinsurance based on the reinsurers' ratings. In recent years, a number of the Company's reinsurers were downgraded by one or more rating agencies, resulting in decreases in the credit allowed for reinsurance and in the financial benefits of using reinsurance under existing rating agency capital adequacy models. Many of the Company's reinsurers have already been downgraded to single-A or below by one or more rating agencies. The Company could be required to raise additional capital to replace the lost reinsurance credit in order to satisfy rating agency and regulatory capital adequacy and single risk requirements. The rating agencies' reduction in credit for reinsurance could also ultimately reduce the Company's return on equity to the extent that ceding commissions paid to the Company by the reinsurers were not adequately increased to compensate for the effect of any additional capital required. In addition, downgraded reinsurers may default on amounts due to the Company and such reinsurer obligations may not be adequately collateralized, resulting in additional losses to the Company and a reduction in its shareholders' equity and net income. The performance of the Company's invested assets affects its results of operations and cash flows. Investment income from the Company's investment portfolio is one of the primary sources of cash flows supporting its operations and claim payments. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company's net investment income was $354.7 million, $259.2 million and $162.6 million, respectively. If the Company's calculations with respect to its policy liabilities are incorrect or other unanticipated payment obligations arise, or if the Company improperly structures its investments to 52 Table of Contents meet these liabilities, it could have unexpected losses, including losses resulting from forced liquidation of investments before their maturity. The investment policies of the insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance law requirements, and may change depending upon regulatory, economic and market conditions and the existing or anticipated financial condition and operating requirements, including the tax position, of the Company's businesses. Changes in the Company's investment policies could result in sales of securities that could result in investment losses and reduce net income and shareholders' equity. The change in investment policies could also affect the amount of investment income generated by the portfolio, causing a reduction in net investment income. The Company has retained a number of investment managers to manage its investment portfolio. The performance of the Company's invested assets is subject to the performance of the investment managers in selecting and managing appropriate investments. The investment managers have discretionary authority over the Company's investment portfolio within the limits of its investment guidelines. The Company is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of these executives, or its inability to retain other key personnel, could adversely affect its business. The Company's success substantially depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of its senior management and other key employees to implement its business strategy. The Company believes there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which the Company competes. Although the Company is not aware of any planned departures, the Company relies substantially upon the services of Dominic J. Frederico, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executives. Although Mr. Frederico and certain other executives have employment agreements with the Company, the Company may not be successful in retaining their services. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or other key members of the Company's management team could adversely affect the implementation of its business strategy. The Company's business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. The Company's senior management plays an active role in its underwriting and business decisions, as well as in performing its financial reporting and compliance obligations. The Company's location in Bermuda may serve as an impediment to attracting and retaining experienced personnel. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, other than spouses of Bermudians and individuals holding permanent resident certificates or working resident certificates, are not permitted to engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a work permit issued by the Bermuda government. A work permit is only granted or extended if the employer can show that, after a proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian or individual holding a permanent resident certificate or working resident certificate is available who meets the minimum standards for the position. The Bermuda government's policy places a six year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to specified exemptions for persons deemed to be key employees. All of the Company's Bermuda-based employees who require work permits have been granted permits by the Bermuda government. It is possible that the Company could lose the services of one or more of its key employees if the Company is unable to obtain or renew their work permits. The regulatory systems under which the Company operates, and recent changes and potential changes thereto, could have a significant and negative effect on its business. The Bermuda Monetary Authority has stated that achieving equivalence with European Union regulators under the Solvency II Directive (expected to become effective in late 2012 or early 2013) is one of its key strategic objectives. To that end, the Authority has introduced (and is in the process of introducing) regulations that, among other things, implements a group supervision regime and enhances the capital and solvency framework applicable to Bermuda insurers. The regulations and the proposed regulations, if implemented, may have an impact on the Company's operations. 53 Table of Contents Risks Related to GAAP and Applicable Law Marking-to-market the Company's insured credit derivatives portfolio may subject net income to volatility. The Company is required to mark-to-market certain derivatives that it insures, including CDS that are considered derivatives under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Although there is no cash flow effect from this "marking-to-market," net changes in the fair market value of the derivative are reported in the Company's consolidated statements of operations and therefore affect its reported earnings. As a result of such treatment, and given the large principal balance of the Company's CDS portfolio, small changes in the market pricing for insurance of CDS will generally result in the Company recognizing material gains or losses, with material market price increases generally resulting in large reported losses under GAAP. Accordingly, the Company's GAAP earnings will be more volatile than would be suggested by the actual performance of its business operations and insured portfolio. The fair value of a credit derivative will be affected by any event causing changes in the credit spread (i.e., the difference in interest rates between comparable securities having different credit risk) on an underlying security referenced in the credit derivative. Common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying municipal or corporate security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate include changes in the state of national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, changes to a company's competitive position within an industry, management changes, changes in the ratings of the underlying security, movements in interest rates, default or failure to pay interest, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the issuer's ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations. Similarly, common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying structured security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate may include the occurrence and severity of collateral defaults, changes in demographic trends and their impact on the levels of credit enhancement, rating changes, changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the risk of the collateral or the ability of the servicer to collect payments on the underlying assets sufficient to pay principal and interest. The fair value of credit derivative contracts also reflects the change in the Company's own credit cost, based on the price to purchase credit protection on AGC. For discussion of the Company's fair value methodology for credit derivatives, see Note 6 to "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." If the derivative is held to maturity and no credit loss is incurred, any gains or losses previously reported would be offset by corresponding gains or losses at maturity. Due to the complexity of fair value accounting and the application of GAAP requirements, future amendments or interpretations of relevant accounting standards may cause the Company to modify its accounting methodology in a manner which may have an adverse impact on its financial results. Change in industry and other accounting practices could impair the Company's reported financial results and impede its ability to do business. Changes in or the issuance of new accounting standards, as well as any changes in the interpretation of current accounting guidance, may have an adverse effect on the Company's reported financial results, including future revenues, and may influence the types and/or volume of business that management may choose to pursue. Changes in or inability to comply with applicable law could adversely affect the Company's ability to do business. The Company's businesses are subject to direct and indirect regulation under state insurance laws, federal securities, commodities and tax laws affecting public finance and asset backed obligations, and federal regulation of derivatives, as well as applicable laws in the other countries in which the Company operates. Future legislative, regulatory, judicial or other legal changes in the jurisdictions in which the Company does business may adversely affect its ability to pursue its current mix of business, thereby materially impacting its financial results by, among other things, limiting the types of risks it may insure, lowering applicable single or aggregate risk limits, increasing required reserves, increasing the level of supervision or regulation to which the Company's operations may be subject, imposing restrictions that make the Company's products less attractive to potential buyers, lowering the 54 Table of Contents profitability of the Company's business activities, requiring the Company to change certain of its business practices and exposing it to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). In particular, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") signed into law on July 21, 2010 could result in requirements to maintain capital and/or post margin with respect to any future derivative transactions and possibly its existing insured derivatives portfolio. It is also possible that the Dodd-Frank Act could extend even more broadly to encompass the Company's financial guaranty insurance business. The magnitude of any capital or margin requirements, as well as the extent to which such requirements would apply in respect of the Company's existing derivatives or insured portfolio, will depend primarily on rulemaking by the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission. As discussed in "Risks Related to the Company's Capital and Liquidity Requirements—The Company may require additional capital from time to time, including from soft capital and liquidity credit facilities, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms," we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, or obtain on favorable terms, any additional capital that may be required by the Dodd-Frank Act. If the new regulations require a substantial amount of collateral to be posted, this could have material adverse effects on the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operation. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company and its affiliates may also be required to clear or exchange trade some or all of the swap transactions they enter into, which could result in higher cost, less transaction flexibility and more price disclosure. The requirements of the legislation could render it uneconomic for the Company to continue to offer insurance on credit derivative transactions. The Company has not provided credit protection through a CDS since early 2009, other than in connection with loss mitigation and other remediation efforts relating to its existing book of business. Generally, the Dodd-Frank Act requirements will become effective on the later of enactment plus 360 days or 90 days following promulgation of final rules by the relevant regulator. These requirements, as well as others that could be applied to the Company as a result of the legislation, could limit the Company's ability to conduct certain lines of business, subject the Company to enhanced business conduct standards when transacting with certain end-users, materially impact the market demand for derivatives and/or the Company's ability to enter into derivative transactions and/or otherwise adversely affect its future results of operations. Because many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented through agency rulemaking processes, which have not been completed, we cannot predict the impact on the Company and its business. Furthermore, the perceived decline in the financial strength of many financial guaranty insurers has caused government officials to examine the suitability of some of the complex securities guaranteed by financial guaranty insurers. For example, the New York Insurance Department had announced that it would develop new rules and regulations for the financial guaranty industry. On September 22, 2008, the Department issued Circular Letter No. 19 (2008) (the "Circular Letter"), which established best practices guidelines for financial guaranty insurers effective January 1, 2009. The Department had announced that it plans to propose legislation and regulations to formalize these guidelines. Such guidelines and the related legislation and regulations may limit the amount of new structured finance business that AGC may write. In addition, in 2010, bills that had been introduced into the New York General Assembly and the New York Senate in 2009 to amend the New York Insurance Law to enhance the regulation of financial guaranty insurers were reintroduced for the 2010 sessions. Although they were not enacted, if they are reintroduced and ultimately enacted, such new rules may have the effect of increasing the Company's required reserves or lowering the single risk limits applicable to transactions the Company is considering, resulting in limitations on the amount of new structured finance business AGC may write. At this time it is not possible to predict if any such new rules will be implemented or legislation enacted. Other potential actions that could materially affect the Company's business include government support for new or existing competitors; and federal government programs for states and municipalities that might adversely impact the demand for insured bonds. Such initiatives introduce a level of uncertainty into how the Company conducts its business and into the types of business the Company is able to conduct. 55 Table of Contents In addition, if the Company fails to comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations it could be exposed to fines, the loss of insurance licenses, limitations on the right to originate new business and restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, all of which could have an adverse impact on its business results and prospects. As a result of a number of factors, including incurred losses and risks reassumed from troubled reinsurers, AGM and AGC have from time to time exceeded regulatory risk limits. Failure to comply with these limits allows the Department the discretion to cause the Company to cease writing new business. Although the Company has notified the Department of such noncompliance, the Department has not exercised such discretion in the past. If an insurance company's surplus declines below minimum required levels, the insurance regulator could impose additional restrictions on the insurer or initiate insolvency proceedings. AGC and AGM may increase surplus by various means, including obtaining capital contributions from the Company, purchasing reinsurance or entering into other loss mitigation arrangements, reducing the amount of new business written or obtaining regulatory approval to release contingency reserves. From time to time, AGM and AGC have obtained approval from their regulators to release contingency reserves based on the expiration of its insured exposure. AGL's ability to pay dividends may be constrained by certain regulatory requirements and restrictions. AGL is subject to Bermuda regulatory requirements that affect its ability to pay dividends on common shares and to make other payments. Under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, AGL may declare or pay a dividend only (1) if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, and after the payment would be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and (2) if the realizable value of its assets would not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. While AGL currently intends to pay dividends on its common shares, investors who require dividend income should carefully consider these risks before investing in AGL. In addition, if, pursuant to the insurance laws and related regulations of Bermuda, Maryland and New York, AGL's insurance subsidiaries cannot pay sufficient dividends to AGL at the times or in the amounts that it requires, it would have an adverse effect on AGL's ability to pay dividends to shareholders. See "Risks Related to the Company's Capital and Liquidity Requirements—The Company's ability to meet its obligations may be constrained." Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of AGL. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. or U.K. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state or country where the insurer is domiciled. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of AGL's common shares would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of its U.S. insurance company subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of Maryland, New York, Oklahoma and the U.K. would likely apply to such a transaction. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of AGL, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of its shareholders might consider to be desirable. While AGL's Bye-Laws limit the voting power of any shareholder to less than 10%, we cannot assure you that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned 10% or more of its common shares did not control the applicable insurance company subsidiary, notwithstanding the limitation on the voting power of such shares. Risks Related to Taxation Changes in U.S. tax laws could reduce the demand or profitability of financial guaranty insurance, or negatively impact the Company's investment portfolio. Any material change in the U.S. tax treatment of municipal securities, the imposition of a national sales tax or a flat tax in lieu of the current federal income tax structure in the U.S., or changes in the treatment of dividends, could adversely affect the market for municipal obligations and, consequently, reduce the demand for financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of such obligations. 56 Table of Contents Changes in U.S. federal, state or local laws that materially adversely affect the tax treatment of municipal securities or the market for those securities, or other changes negatively affecting the municipal securities market, also may adversely impact the Company's investment portfolio, a significant portion of which is invested in tax-exempt instruments. These adverse changes may adversely affect the value of the Company's tax-exempt portfolio, or its liquidity. Certain of the Company's foreign subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. tax. The Company manages its business so that AGL and its foreign subsidiaries (other than AGRO and AGE) operate in such a manner that none of them should be subject to U.S. federal tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks, and U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the U.S., the Company cannot be certain that the IRS will not contend successfully that AGL or any of its foreign subsidiaries (other than AGRO and AGE) is/are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. If AGL and its foreign subsidiaries (other than AGRO and AGE) were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., each such company could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business. AGL and its Bermuda subsidiaries may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and on an investment in the Company. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda's Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, has given AGL and its Bermuda Subsidiaries an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then subject to certain limitations the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to AGL or its Bermuda Subsidiaries, or any of AGL's or its subsidiaries' operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance's assurance, the Company cannot be certain that it will not be subject to Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. The Bermuda Ministry of Finance announced in November 2010 that the standard assurance will be extended to March 31, 2035, but the required legislation for this has not yet come into force. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union are considering measures that might increase the Company's taxes and reduce its net income. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD") has published reports and launched a global initiative dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. According to the OECD, Bermuda is a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard and as such is listed on the OECD "white list." The Company is not able to predict whether any changes will be made to this classification or whether such changes will subject the Company to additional taxes. U.S. Persons who hold 10% or more of AGL's shares directly or through foreign entities may be subject to taxation under the U.S. controlled foreign corporation rules. Each 10% U.S. shareholder of a foreign corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation ("CFC") for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and who owns shares in the foreign corporation directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the foreign corporation's taxable year on which it is a CFC, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's "subpart F income," even if the subpart F income is not distributed. In addition, upon a sale of shares of a CFC, 10% U.S. shareholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a portion of their gain at ordinary income rates. 57 Table of Contents The Company believes that because of the dispersion of the share ownership in AGL, provisions in AGL's Bye-Laws that limit voting power, contractual limits on voting power and other factors, no U.S. Person who owns AGL's shares directly or indirectly through foreign entities should be treated as a 10% U.S. shareholder of AGL or of any of its foreign subsidiaries. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case such U.S. Person may be subject to taxation under U.S. tax rules. U.S. Persons who hold shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of the Company's related person insurance income. If: •the Company is 25% or more owned directly, indirectly through foreign entities or by attribution by U.S. Persons; •the gross RPII of AG Re or any other AGL foreign subsidiary engaged in the insurance business that has not made an election under section 953(d) of the Code to be treated as a U.S. corporation for all U.S. tax purposes or are CFCs owned directly or indirectly by AGUS (each, with AG Re, a "Foreign Insurance Subsidiary") were to equal or exceed 20% of such Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's gross insurance income in any taxable year; and •direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or indirectly through entities) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the Company's shares, then a U.S. Person who owns AGL's shares (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person's pro rata share of such Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons at that date, regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the geographic distribution of a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary's business and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by a Foreign Insurance Subsidiary. The Company believes that each of its Foreign Insurance Subsidiaries either should not in the foreseeable future have RPII income which equals or exceeds 20% of its gross insurance income or have direct or indirect insureds, as provided for by RPII rules, that directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of AGL's shares. However, the Company cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond its control. U.S. Persons who dispose of AGL's shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at dividend tax rates on a portion of their gain, if any. The meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to AGL and its Foreign Insurance Subsidiaries is uncertain. The RPII rules in conjunction with section 1248 of the Code provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own (directly, indirectly, through foreign entities or by attribution) 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation's gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as dividend income to the extent of the holder's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares. This provision applies whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII. In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. In the case of AGL's shares, these RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of shares because AGL is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the RPII provisions have never 58 Table of Contents been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form, what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto, or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. U.S. Persons who hold common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if AGL is considered to be a "passive foreign investment company" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If AGL is considered a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns any shares of AGL will be subject to adverse tax consequences that could materially adversely affect its investment, including subjecting the investor to both a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and an interest charge. The Company believes that AGL is not, and currently does not expect AGL to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, there can be no assurance that AGL will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in AGL's common shares. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the U.S. but have certain U.S. connections. For example, legislation has been introduced in Congress to limit the deductibility of reinsurance premiums paid by U.S. insurance companies to foreign affiliates and impose additional limits on deductibility of interest of foreign owned U.S. corporations. Another legislative proposal would treat a foreign corporation that is primarily managed and controlled in the U.S. as a U.S. corporation for U.S federal income tax purposes. Further, legislation has been introduced to override the reduction or elimination of the U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income under a tax treaty in the case of a deductible related party payment made by a U.S. member of a foreign controlled group to a foreign member of the group organized in a tax treaty country to the extent that the ultimate foreign parent corporation would not enjoy the treaty benefits with respect to such payments. It is possible that this or similar legislation could be introduced in and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on the Company or the Company's shareholders. U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. is a PFIC, or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the "subpart F income" of a CFC or RPII are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There currently are no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies, and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot be certain if, when, or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be implemented or made, or whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Scope of Application of Recently Enacted Legislation is Uncertain Congress recently enacted legislation that would require any non-U.S. entity that is characterized as a "foreign financial institution" ("FFI") to enter into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service that would require the FFI to obtain information about the FFI's financial account owners, including its shareholders and noteholders other than holders of shares or notes that are regularly traded on an established securities market ("Non-Publicly Traded Securities Holders"), and to disclose information about its U.S. Non-Publicly Traded Securities Holders to the IRS. This legislation generally 59 Table of Contents also would impose a 30% withholding tax on certain payments of U.S. source income to the FFI if it does not enter into the agreement, is unable to obtain information about its U.S. Non-Publicly Traded Securities Holders or otherwise fails to satisfy its obligations under the agreement. Additionally, even if the FFI does enter into such an agreement with the IRS, the 30% withholding tax could be imposed on Non-Publicly Traded Securities Holders that do not provide the required information. If the FFI cannot satisfy these obligations, payments of U.S. source income made after December 31, 2012 to the FFI or payments by the FFI to the Non-Publicly Traded Securities Holders after this date generally would be subject to such withholding tax under the legislation. Further, if the non-U.S. entity is not characterized as an FFI, it generally would be subject to such 30% withholding tax on certain payments of U.S. source income unless it either provides information to withholding agents with respect to its "substantial U.S. owners" or makes certain certifications, with an exception to this rule provided for a corporation the stock of which is regularly traded on an established securities market and subsidiaries of such corporation. Although this recently enacted legislation does not appear to be intended to apply to AGL or its non-U.S. subsidiaries, the scope of this legislation is unclear. As a result, Non-Publicly Traded Securities Holders may be required to provide any information that AGL determines necessary to avoid the imposition of such withholding tax in order to allow AGL to satisfy such obligations. The U.S. Treasury is expected to issue regulations clarifying the scope of this legislation, and such regulations could have an adverse impact on us. In the event that this withholding tax is imposed, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Recharacterization by the Internal Revenue Service of the Company's U.S. federal tax treatment of losses on the Company's CDS portfolio can adversely affect the Company's financial position. As part of the Company's financial guaranty business, the Company has sold credit protection by insuring CDS entered into with various financial institutions. Assured Guaranty's CDS portfolio has experienced significant cumulative mark-to-market losses of $983 million, which are only deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes upon realization and, consequently, generate a significant deferred tax asset based on the Company's intended treatment of such losses as ordinary insurance losses upon realization. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of CDS is an unsettled area of the tax law. As such, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service may decide that the losses generated by the Company's CDS business should be characterized as capital rather than ordinary insurance losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition. An ownership change under Section 382 of the Code could have adverse U.S. federal tax consequences. If AGL were to issue equity securities in the future, including in connection with any strategic transaction, or if previously issued securities of AGL were to be sold by the current holders, AGL may experience an "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. In general terms, an ownership change would result from transactions increasing the aggregate ownership of certain stockholders in AGL's stock by more than 50 percentage points over a testing period (generally three years). If an ownership change occurred, the Company's ability to use certain tax attributes, including certain built-in losses, credits, deductions or tax basis and/or the Company's ability to continue to reflect the associated tax benefits as assets on AGL's balance sheet, may be limited. The Company cannot give any assurance that AGL will not undergo an ownership change at a time when these limitations could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition. AGMH likely experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. In connection with the AGMH Acquisition, AGMH likely experienced an "ownership change" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. The Company has concluded that the Section 382 limitations as discussed in "An ownership change under Section 382 of the Code could have adverse U.S. federal tax consequences" are unlikely to have any material tax or accounting consequences. However, this conclusion is based on a variety of assumptions, including the Company's estimates regarding the amount and timing of certain deductions and future earnings, any of which could be incorrect. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these limitations would not have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or that such adverse effects would not be material. 60 Table of Contents Risks Related to AGL's Common Shares The market price of AGL's common shares may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in the Company to decline. The market price of AGL's common shares has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. Numerous factors, including many over which the Company has no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of its common shares. These risks include those described or referred to in this "Risk Factors" section as well as, among other things: •investor perceptions of the Company, its prospects and that of the financial guaranty industry and the markets in which the Company operates; •the Company's operating and financial performance; •the Company's access to financial and capital markets to raise additional capital, refinance its debt or replace existing senior secured credit and receivables-backed facilities; •the Company's ability to repay debt; •the Company's dividend policy; •future sales of equity or equity-related securities; •changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and •general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of AGL's common shares, regardless of its operating performance. AGL's common shares are equity securities and are junior to existing and future indebtedness. As equity interests, AGL's common shares rank junior to indebtedness and to other non-equity claims on AGL and its assets available to satisfy claims on AGL, including claims in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. For example, upon liquidation, holders of AGL debt securities and shares of preferred stock and creditors would receive distributions of AGL's available assets prior to the holders of AGL common shares. Similarly, creditors, including holders of debt securities, of AGL's subsidiaries, have priority on the assets of those subsidiaries. Future indebtedness may restrict payment of dividends on the common shares. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of common shares, dividends are payable only when and if declared by AGL's board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board. Further, the common shares place no restrictions on its business or operations or on its ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to stockholders generally. There may be future sales or other dilution of AGL's equity, which may adversely affect the market price of its common shares. Future sales or other dilution of AGL's equity may adversely affect the market price of its common shares and equity-linked securities. For example, as discussed under "Risks Related to the Company's Financial Strength and Financial Enhancement Ratings—A downgrade of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of any of the company's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries would adversely affect its business and prospects and, consequently, its results of operations and financial condition," if S&P adopts revised ratings criteria for bond insurers, the Company may need to raise additional capital (which it may do by issuing equity) in order to maintain its current financial strength ratings. In addition, WLR Recovery Fund IV, L.P., which as of February 23, 2011 owned approximately 8.7% of AGL's common shares, has registration rights with respect to such common shares. The market price of AGL's common shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of common shares or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. 61 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in AGL's Bye-Laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove its directors, which could diminish the value of its common shares. AGL's Bye-Laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of AGL's common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of AGL's common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. See "Other Provisions of AGL's Bye-Laws—AGL's Board of Directors and Corporate Action" in "Item 1. Business" for a description of a proposal on which shareholders will be asked to vote at the Company's annual general meeting in May 2011, to amend AGL's Bye-Laws to eliminate the classified board structure and provide for the annual election of all directors. Provisions in the Code and AGL's Bye-Laws may reduce or increase the voting rights of its common shares. Under the Code, AGL's Bye-Laws and contractual arrangements, certain shareholders have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, resulting in other shareholders having voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, the relevant provisions of the Code may have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. More specifically, pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Code, if, and so long as, the common shares of a shareholder are treated as "controlled shares" (as determined under section 958 of the Code) of any U.S. Person (as defined below) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by AGL's issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person (a "9.5% U.S. Shareholder") are limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in AGL's Bye-Laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. For these purposes, "controlled shares" include, among other things, all shares of AGL that such U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). In addition, the Board of Directors may limit a shareholder's voting rights where it deems appropriate to do so to (1) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholders, and (2) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates. AGL's Bye-Laws provide that shareholders will be notified of their voting interests prior to any vote taken by them. As a result of any such reallocation of votes, the voting rights of a holder of AGL common shares might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding common shares, thereby possibly resulting in such holder becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, the reallocation of votes could result in such holder becoming subject to the short swing profit recovery and filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. AGL also has the authority under its Bye-Laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder's voting rights are to be reallocated under the Bye-Laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to a request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request, the Company may, in its sole discretion, eliminate such shareholder's voting rights. Provisions in AGL's Bye-Laws may restrict the ability to transfer common shares, and may require shareholders to sell their common shares. AGL's Board of Directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of any common shares (1) if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in AGL's Bye-Laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to AGL, any of its subsidiaries or any of its shareholders may occur as a result of such transfer (other than such as the 62 Table of Contents Board of Directors considers to be de minimis), or (2) subject to any applicable requirements of or commitments to the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), if a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws has not been provided or if any required governmental approvals have not been obtained. AGL's Bye-Laws also provide that if the Board of Directors determines that share ownership by a person may result in adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to the Company, any of the subsidiaries or any of the shareholders (other than such as the Board of Directors considers to be de minimis), then AGL has the option, but not the obligation, to require that shareholder to sell to AGL or to third parties to whom AGL assigns the repurchase right for fair market value the minimum number of common shares held by such person which is necessary to eliminate such adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences. Existing reinsurance agreement terms may make it difficult to effect a change of control of AGL. Some of the Company's reinsurance agreements have change of control provisions that are triggered if a third party acquires a designated percentage of AGL's shares. If a change of control provision is triggered, the ceding company may recapture some or all of the reinsurance business ceded to the Company in the past. Any such recapture could adversely affect the Company's shareholders' equity, future income or financial strength or debt ratings. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of AGL, including through transactions that some or all of the shareholders might consider to be desirable. 63 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 