Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business. This section describes some of the more important risks that we face, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The risk factors set forth in this section could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully review the factors discussed below and the cautionary statements referred to under "Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Businesses The recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, which has negatively impacted our business, and may have a material adverse effect on us. During 2007, the subprime residential lending and single family housing markets began to experience accelerating default rates, declining real estate values and increasing backlog of housing supply. The residential sector issues quickly spread more broadly into the asset-backed, corporate and other credit and equity markets even though underlying fundamentals outside of the residential sector continued to show relatively strong performance and credit metrics. Since the subprime meltdown, volatility and risk premiums in most credit and equity markets have increased dramatically while liquidity has decreased. These issues have continued into the beginning of fiscal 2008. Increasing concerns regarding the U.S. and world economic outlook, such as large asset write-downs at banks, rising oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, are compounding these issues and risk premiums in most capital markets remain near historical all-time highs. Although we do not have any direct subprime exposure or direct exposure to the single family mortgage market, the factors described above have resulted in substantially reduced commercial mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and are precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available credit. As a result, most financial industry participants, including commercial real estate lenders and investors, are finding it difficult to obtain cost-effective debt capital to finance new investment activity or to refinance maturing debt. Due to these conditions, the commercial real estate finance market has experienced higher volatility and less liquidity despite continued relatively strong credit performance across the sector. Credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain for the Company and its competitors'. The cost of financing as well as overall market-demanded risk premiums in commercial lending have increased. Most lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there is a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which we conduct business. The negative impact on the tightening of the credit markets, further declines in real estate values in the U.S. and continuing credit and liquidity concerns may have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, there is no assurance that the increased financing costs, financing with increasingly restrictive terms or the increase in risk premiums that are demanded by investors will not have a material impact on our future profitability measures. However, we expect that a portion of the impact of increased capital costs will be offset by increased yields on newly-originated assets, particularly as assets in our existing term debt transactions are repaid. 17 Liquidity in the capital markets is essential to our businesses and future growth and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and our ability to grow and to fund existing obligations. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including issuing common equity, perpetual preferred equity, trust preferred securities and convertible senior notes. We depend on external financing to fund the growth of our business mainly because one of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income to its shareholders, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. Our access to equity or debt financing depends on the willingness of third parties to make equity investments in us and provide us with corporate level debt. It also depends on conditions in the capital markets generally. Companies in the real estate industry, including us, are currently experiencing, and have at times historically experienced, limited availability of capital, and new capital sources may not be available on acceptable terms. Our ability to raise capital could be impaired if the capital markets have a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects or the prospects for mortgage REITs and the commercial real estate market generally. We cannot assure stockholders that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, we will not be able to grow our business, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. For information about our available sources of funds, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our liquidity position could be adversely affected if we were unable to complete additional term debt transactions on favorable terms or at all. We have completed nine term debt transactions in our commercial lending portfolio and in our real estate securities portfolio through which we have raised $3.9 billion of third party debt to pay down our borrowings under our credit facilities and created additional liquidity under our credit facilities for use in funding our investments. There is currently no availability of liquidity through the issuance of new term debt transactions due to investor concerns surrounding the real estate markets, the asset-backed markets and the issues surrounding the overall credit markets generally, among other things. Our business strategy has depended on our ability to match-fund new investments through the issuance of new term debt transactions. If we are not able to issue new term debt transactions, or are unable to do so on terms that we find economically justifiable, we may be unable to operate our business utilizing this business strategy and our ability to increase our assets under management, and therefore our ability to increase our earnings, could be severely restricted. A prolonged downturn in the asset-backed securities market will cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, may cause us to liquidate assets at prices that could result in significant losses to us and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to complete additional term debt transactions will depend on, among other things: •the extent that the capital markets generally, and the asset-backed securities market in particular, suffer disruptions; •disruptions in the credit quality and performance of our loan or securities portfolios, particularly that portion which has been previously securitized and serves as collateral for existing term debt, which could reduce or eliminate investor demand for our term debt in the future; 18 •any material downgrades or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our term debt transactions which could reduce demand for our term debt; and •structural changes imposed by the rating agencies or investors may reduce the leverage we are able to obtain, increase the cost and otherwise adversely affect the efficiency of our term debt issued transactions. At December 31, 2007, we had a total of $545.4 million of assets that were not match-funded with term debt. These assets consisted of $457.1 million of corporate loan investments, which are financed under credit facilities that we refer to as the MC Facility and the MC VFCC Facility, and $88.3 million of real estate debt investments, which are financed under a credit facility that we refer to as the JP facility. In addition, at December 31, 2007 our Securities Fund had $212.8 million of assets under a warehouse agreement, which was also not match-funded with term debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds or obtain financing for future capital commitments, we may not be able to repay indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. At December 31, 2007, we had future funding commitments of $564.5 million related to the real estate debt investments we held and $14.3 million related to our corporate loan portfolio in our Monroe Capital joint venture. Our ability to fund future capital commitments will depend, to a certain extent, on general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that we will be able to raise funds in the capital markets or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. Our inability to fund future commitments may cause borrowers to take legal action against us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. However, as of December 31, 2007, we believe our cash flows from operations, available cash and cash equivalents and available borrowings will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs. For more information on our contractual commitments, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations and Commitments" and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We retain the subordinate classes of bonds in the term debt transactions that we have issued, which entails certain risks. The subordinate classes of bonds that we retain in the term debt transactions that we have issued represent leveraged investments in the underlying assets. Distributions on subordinate classes of bonds are generally made only after payment of interest on, and principal of, the senior bond classes. Although generally there is no interest or principal due on the subordinate classes of bonds, distributions may be made to holders of the subordinate classes of bonds on each payment date after all of the other required payments are made on each payment date. There can be no assurance that after making required payments on the senior bond classes there will be any remaining funds available to pay us. Accordingly, our subordinate classes of bonds may not be paid in full and we may be subject to a loss of all of our interest in the event that payments are not made on the underlying assets or losses are incurred with respect to the underlying assets. Additionally, the terms of the term debt transactions issued by us include, and may in the future include, coverage tests, including over-collateralization tests, which are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying collateral debt securities and other assets may be used to pay principal of, and interest on, the subordinate classes of bonds in the term debt transactions. In the event the coverage tests are not satisfied, interest and principal that would otherwise be payable on the subordinate classes we hold may be re-directed to pay principal on the senior bond classes. Therefore, our failure to satisfy the coverage tests could adversely affect our 19 operating results and cash flows. Certain coverage tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may also restrict our ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure the term debt transactions. We cannot assure you, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on any potential future term debt transactions, the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income distributable to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect the availability of net income distributable to us. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our term debt transactions will increase. If we are unable to extend or renew our existing warehouse and secured facilities, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be significantly harmed. Warehouse and credit facilities are critical to our business. If we are unable to extend or renew our existing warehouse and secured credit facilities, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be significantly harmed. In particular, the Securities Fund warehouse agreement will expire on May 1, 2008. Additionally, the MC Facility will expire on March 31, 2008 and the MC VFCC Facility, if not extended by the lender, will expire on July 29, 2008. Although we are working to extend or renew these agreements on acceptable terms, failure to extend or renew these agreements or to obtain another source of funding for the assets could significantly harm our financial condition. In the case of the Securities Fund, the bank could liquidate some or all of the assets on its books and trigger a $75 million loss of warehouse deposits to the Securities Fund, of which we own 30%. In the case of the MC Facility, the bank could sell the loans on the MC Facility and retain our equity used to support the MC Facility, which is approximately $16 million, and in the case of the MC VFCC Facility, the bank could also sell the loans on the MC VFCC Facility and retain our equity used to support the MC VFCC Facility, which is approximately $20.2 million, as well as seek recourse under a $25 million guaranty that we have provided to the lender, but in each case only in the event that proceeds from a sale are not sufficient to cover the loans. No assurance can be given that we will be able to extend or renew our existing warehouse and secured facilities, or obtain other financing on terms that are acceptable, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, it could have a material impact on our results of operations. The repurchase agreements and bank credit facilities and warehouse lines that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral. We use bank credit facilities and warehouse lines, including repurchase agreements, to finance some of our investments. Although our primary credit facility in our real estate debt business is not subject to margin calls based on credit spread widening, if the market value of the loans pledged by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to pay down our debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support our credit facilities will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and solvency. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute may contain negative covenants that, among other things, limit the amount of leverage that we may employ, require that we maintain certain interest and fixed charge coverage ratios, require that we maintain a certain minimum tangible net worth, limit our 20 recourse indebtedness, limit our ability to distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations and require us to hedge our interest rate exposure. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants under its borrowings with the exception of its tangible net worth covenant for which the Company obtained a one-time waiver from its lending institutions. If we are not in compliance with any of our covenants, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive such non-compliance in the future and any such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on us. Our warehouse and secured facilities may limit our ability to make investments. Our warehouse and secured facility providers have the right to review the potential investment for which they are providing financing. We may be unable to obtain the consent of our warehouse and secured facility providers to make investments that we believe are favorable to us. In the event that our warehouse and secured facility providers do not consent to the inclusion of the potential asset in or under the warehouse and secured facility, we may be unable to obtain alternate financing for that investment. Our warehouse provider's consent rights with respect to our warehouse and secured facility may limit our ability to execute our business strategy. Further, our credit facility warehouse providers retain discretion over their obligation to fund and require us to maintain a certain amount of cash uninvested or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position in order to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. The mortgage loans we originate and invest in and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower under the loan. If the borrower defaults, it may result in losses to us. Mortgage loans are secured by real estate and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by real estate is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of a property can be affected by, among other things: •tenant mix; •success of tenant businesses; •property management decisions; •property location and condition; •property operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes and maintenance costs; •competition from comparable types of properties; •changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; •changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; •any need to address environmental contamination at the property; •the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; •changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; •declines in regional or local real estate values; •declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; 21 •increases in interest rates; •real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; •acts of God; •social unrest and civil disturbances; •terrorism; and •increases in costs associated with renovation and/or construction. Any one or a combination of these factors may cause a borrower to default on a loan or to declare bankruptcy. If a default or bankruptcy occurs and the underlying asset value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. Additionally, we may suffer losses in the following instances, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our stock and our ability to pay dividends: •If the value of real property or other assets securing our loans deteriorates. The majority of our real estate loans are fully or substantially non-recourse. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets (including escrowed funds and reserves) collateralizing the loan. For this purpose, we consider loans made to special purpose entities formed solely for the purpose of holding and financing particular assets to be non-recourse loans. We sometimes also make loans that are secured by equity interests in the borrowing entities or by investing directly in the owner of the property. There can be no assurance that the value of the assets securing our loans will not deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, including acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets. Mezzanine loans are subject to the additional risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrowing entity. •If a borrower or guarantor defaults on recourse obligations under our loans. We sometimes obtain individual or corporate guarantees, which are not secured, from borrowers or their affiliates. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants, or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our loans and guarantees. •Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity's management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. •In the event of a default or bankruptcy of a borrower, particularly in cases where the borrower has incurred debt that is senior to our loan. If a borrower defaults on our loan and the mortgaged real estate or other borrower assets collateralizing our loan are insufficient to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event of a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be 22 sufficient to satisfy our loan. In addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. •If our reserves for losses prove inadequate, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We regularly evaluate financial reserves, if any, to protect against potential future losses. While we have in many of our loans asset-specific credit protection, including cash reserve accounts, cash deposits and letters of credit which we require that our borrowers fund and/or post at the closing of a transaction in accounts in which we have a security interest, such protections may not be sufficient to protect against all losses. As of December 31, 2007, we have not accumulated any loan loss reserves. We cannot be certain that our future reserves, if any, will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. •If provisions of our loan agreements are unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. •If the risks associated with loan participations and intercreditor arrangements provide us with inadequate control rights. Some of our assets are participating interests in loans in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other participating lenders. Some of our assets are interests in subordinated loans which are subject to intercreditor arrangements with senior and/or junior lenders. The presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through "standstill" periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Similarly, a majority of the participating lenders may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound. We may be adversely affected by such lack of full control. The subordinate mortgage notes, participation interests in mortgage notes, mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments we originate and invest in may be subject to risks relating to the structure and terms of the transactions, as well as subordination in bankruptcy, and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our investments, which may result in losses to us. We focus on originating, structuring and acquiring senior and subordinate debt investments secured primarily by commercial and multifamily properties, including first lien mortgage loans, junior participations in first lien mortgage loans, which are often referred to as B-notes, second lien mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and preferred equity interests in borrowers who own such properties. These investments may be subordinate to other debt on commercial property and are secured by subordinate rights to the commercial property or by equity interests in the commercial entity. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, after senior obligations are met, there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate interests. Because each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate investments can vary in their structural characteristics and lender rights. Our rights to control the default or bankruptcy process following a default will vary from transaction to transaction. The subordinate investments that we originate and invest in may not give us the right to demand foreclosure as a subordinate real estate debtholder. Furthermore, the presence of intercreditor agreements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, 23 exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. We are subject to risks associated with construction lending, such as declining real estate values, cost over-runs and delays in completion. Our loan assets include loans made to developers to construct prospective projects. The primary risks to us of construction loans are the potential for cost over-runs, particularly given the recent increased costs of raw materials, the developer's failing to meet a project delivery schedule and the inability of a borrower to sell or refinance the project at completion and repay our loan due to declining real estate values. These risks could cause us to have to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to complete the project. We may also suffer losses on our loans if the borrower is unable to sell the project or refinance our loan. We invest in CMBS securities, including "first loss" and other subordinate securities, which entail certain risks. CMBS securities, or collateralized mortgage backed securities, are, generally, securities backed by obligations (including certificates of participation in obligations) that are principally secured by mortgages on real property or interests therein having a multifamily or commercial use, such as regional malls, other retail space, office buildings, industrial or warehouse properties, hotels, apartment buildings, nursing homes and senior living centers, and may include, without limitation, CMBS conduit securities, CMBS credit tenant lease securities and CMBS large loan securities. We invest in a variety of CMBS securities, including CMBS which are subject to the first risk of loss if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans. CMBS securities entitle the holders thereof to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial or multi-family mortgage loans. Consequently, CMBS securities will be affected by payments, defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying commercial mortgage loans. Because issuers of CMBS securities have no significant assets other than the underlying commercial real estate loans and because of the significant credit risks inherent in the underlying collateral, credit risk is a correspondingly important consideration with respect to the related CMBS securities. Additionally, CMBS securities are subject to particular risks, including lack of standardized terms and payment of all or substantially all of the principal only at maturity rather than regular amortization of principal. Additional risks may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Special risks are presented by hospitals, nursing homes, hospitality properties and certain other property types. Commercial property values and net operating income are subject to volatility, which may result in net operating income becoming insufficient to cover debt service on the related mortgage loan. The repayment of loans secured by income-producing properties is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project rather than upon the liquidation value of the underlying real estate. Furthermore, the net operating income from and value of any commercial property are subject to various risks. The exercise of remedies and successful realization of liquidation proceeds relating to CMBS securities may be highly dependent on the performance of the servicer or special servicer. Expenses of enforcing the underlying mortgage loans (including litigation expenses) and expenses of protecting the properties securing the mortgage loans may be substantial. Consequently, in the event of a default or loss on one or more mortgage loans contained in a securitization, we may not recover our investment. 24 Our investments in REIT securities are subject to risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in senior unsecured real estate securities, which may result in losses to us. In addition to general economic and market risks, our investments in REIT securities involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. REITs generally are required to substantially invest in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments. Our investments in REIT securities and other senior unsecured debt are also subject to the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and similar risks, including risks of delinquency and foreclosure, the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property, risks generally related to interests in real property, and risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. REIT securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinate to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in securities that are rated below investment-grade. As a result, investments in REIT securities are also subject to risks of: •limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; •substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates and real estate values; •subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the REIT; •the operation of mandatory sinking fund or redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; •the possibility that earnings of the REIT may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations; •the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates, declining real estate values and economic downturns; •rating agency credit rating downgrades negatively impacting value of securities; and •covenants not being sufficient to protect investors from the adverse credit impact of merger and acquisition transactions and increased leverage of the REIT. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding REIT securities we hold and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make distributions. Investments in net lease properties may generate losses. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in net lease properties may be significantly adversely affected by a number of factors, including: •national, state and local economic conditions; •real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in an area; •the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the quality, convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; •competition from comparable properties; •the occupancy rate of, and the rental rates charged at, our properties; •the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; •the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of tenants; •the expense of re-leasing space; •changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; 25 •the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; •cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA; •adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; •civil unrest; •acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); •acts of terrorism or war; •adverse changes in zoning laws; and •other factors which are beyond our control. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us. We are subject to the risks that upon expiration or earlier termination of leases for space located at our properties the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the space at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our net lease property portfolio. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more of our significant tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our properties or our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of our investments. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at the property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. The owner or operator of a site may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may experience environmental liability arising from conditions not known to us. 26 We may invest in real estate, or mortgage loans secured by real estate, with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment. We have only limited experience in investing in real estate with environmental liabilities. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flows. Although we believe our net leased assets and properties collateralizing our loan and securities investments are adequately covered by insurance, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in both loss of cash flow from, and the asset value of, the affected property. As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, insurance companies are limiting and charging significant premiums to cover acts of terrorism in insurance policies. As a result, although we, our tenants and our borrowers may carry terrorism insurance, we may suffer losses from acts of terrorism that are not covered by insurance. In addition, the mortgage loans which are secured by certain of our properties contain customary covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain property insurance in an amount equal to the replacement cost of the properties, which may increase the cost of obtaining the required insurance. Many of our investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us. Our investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to sell and purchase properties, securities and debt promptly in response to a change in economic or other conditions will be limited. The Internal Revenue Code also places limits on our ability to sell properties held for fewer than four years. These considerations could make it difficult for us to dispose of properties, even if a disposition were in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, a majority of the mortgage backed securities, REIT securities and real estate debt that we originate or purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions will not be registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in compliance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may result in losses to us. We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses. Most of our securities investments have explicit ratings assigned by at least one of the three leading nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies. However, we may invest in unrated securities, enter into net leases with unrated tenants or participate in unrated or distressed mortgage loans. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality investments and securities because the ability of obligors of net leases and mortgages, including mortgages underlying mortgage-backed securities, to make rent or principal and interest payments may be impaired. If this were to occur, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments and securities. We have not established 27 and do not currently plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. We have no established investment criteria limiting the geographic concentration of our investments in real estate debt, real estate securities or net lease properties. If our investments are concentrated in an area that experiences adverse economic conditions, our investments may lose value and we may experience losses. Certain loans and securities in which we invest may be secured by a single property or properties in one geographic location. Additionally, net lease properties that we may acquire may also be located in a geographic cluster. These current and future investments carry the risks associated with significant geographical concentration. We have not established and do not plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. As a result, properties underlying our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas, and we may experience losses as a result. A worsening of economic conditions in the geographic area in which our investments may be concentrated could have an adverse effect on our business, including reducing the demand for new financings, limiting the ability of customers to pay financed amounts and impairing the value of our collateral. Interest rate fluctuations may reduce the spread we earn on our interest-earning investments and may reduce our net income. Although we seek to match-fund our assets and mitigate the risk associated with future interest rate volatility, we are primarily subject to interest rate risk prior to match-funding our investments and because we do not hedge our retained equity interest in our floating rate term debt transactions. To the extent a term debt transaction has floating rate assets, our earnings will generally increase with increases in floating interest rates, and decrease with declines in floating interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Our interest rate risk sensitive assets, liabilities and related derivative positions are generally held for non-trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to our variable rate assets would increase our annual interest income by approximately $21.4 million offset by an increase in our interest expense of approximately $17.3 million on our variable rate liabilities. Similarly, a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would decrease our annual interest income by the same net amount. Our investments in real estate securities, mortgage notes, mezzanine loans, participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments are subject to changes in credit spreads and if spreads widen, the value of our loan and securities portfolios would decline, as had happened during 2007. Our investments in real estate securities are subject to changes in credit spreads. The value of these securities is dependent upon the yield demanded on these securities by the market based on the underlying credit. Excessive supply of these securities combined with reduced demand will generally cause the market to require a higher yield on these real estate securities, resulting in the use of a higher, or "wider," spread over the benchmark rate to value such securities. Under such conditions, the value of our securities portfolio would tend to decline. Such changes in the market value of our portfolio may adversely affect our net equity or cash flow directly through their impact on unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities, and therefore our ability to realize gains on such securities, or indirectly through their impact on our ability to borrow and access capital. The value of our investments in mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments are also subject to changes in credit spreads. The majority of the assets we invest in are floating rate based on a market credit spread to 28 LIBOR. The value of the asset is dependent upon the yield demanded by the market based on its credit. The value of our portfolio would tend to decline should the market require a higher yield on such assets, resulting in the use of a higher spread over the benchmark rate. Any credit or spread losses incurred with respect to our debt portfolio would affect us in the same way as similar losses on our real estate securities portfolio as described above. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains and could result in losses. To limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations, we may employ hedging strategies, including engaging in interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts as well as engaging in short sales of securities or of future contracts. The use of these types of derivatives to hedge our assets and liabilities carries certain risks, including the risks that: •losses on a hedge position will reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders; •losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; •a hedge may not perform its intended use of offsetting losses on an investment; •the counterparties with which we trade may cease making markets and quoting prices in such instruments, which may render us unable to enter into an offsetting transaction with respect to an open position; and •the counterparties with which we trade may experience business failures, which would most likely result in a default. Default by such counterparty may result in the loss of unrealized profits, which were expected to offset losses on our assets. Such defaults may also result in a loss of income on swaps or caps, which income was expected to be available to cover our debt service payments. Our Board of Directors adopted a general policy with respect to the use of derivatives which generally allows us to use derivatives where appropriate, but does not set forth specific policies and procedures. Our results of operations may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. If we anticipate that the income from any such hedging transaction will not be qualifying income for REIT income test purposes, we may conduct some or all of our hedging activities through a corporate subsidiary that would be subject to corporate income taxation. Our portfolio is leveraged, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution on our securities. We leverage our portfolio through borrowings, generally through the use of bank credit facilities, warehouse lines, repurchase agreements, mortgage loans on real estate, securitizations, including the issuance of term debt transactions, and other borrowings. The type and percentage of leverage varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities or warehouse lines and the lender's estimate of the stability of the portfolio's cash flow. However, we do not restrict the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Moreover, we may have to incur more recourse indebtedness. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent and make riskier investments. We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. 29 Credit ratings assigned to our investments are subject to ongoing evaluations and we cannot assure you that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded. Some of our investments are rated by Moody's Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and/or Standard & Poor's, Inc. The credit ratings on these investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition. We are subject to significant competition, and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. We are subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly traded REITs, private REITs, investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds and private opportunity funds. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. Risks Relating to Investments in Healthcare Assets We have limited experience with owning and operating senior housing and healthcare facilities. In May 2006, we entered into a joint venture with Chain Bridge Capital LLC to invest in senior housing and healthcare-related net leased assets, called "Wakefield." As of December 31, 2007, we owned 94.0% of Wakefield and consolidated the venture in our financial statements. Although the principals of Chain Bridge have extensive experience owning and investing in senior and assisted living facilities, this is a new business for us with risks that differ from those to which we have been subject historically. There can be no assurance that we have the skills needed to run this business profitably. The senior living industry is highly competitive and we expect it to become more competitive. The senior living industry is highly competitive, and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. The operators of the facilities we own or lend to compete with numerous other companies that provide long-term care alternatives such as home healthcare agencies, life care at home, facility-based service programs, retirement communities, convalescent centers and other independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing providers, including not-for-profit entities. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the independent living and assisted living segments of the senior living industry are not substantial, although there are generally barriers to the development of skilled nursing facilities. Consequently, our operators may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to attract new residents, raise resident fees or expand their businesses, which could adversely adverse effect our revenues and earnings. Operators of independent care, assisted living and memory care facilities must comply with the rules and regulations of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations and are subject to new legislative developments. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local licensing requirements, facility inspections, reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other laws, regulations and rules. Any failure to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect our operators' ability to operate the facilities that we own or finance. Healthcare operators are subject to federal and state laws and regulations that govern financial and other arrangements between healthcare providers. These laws prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to induce or 30 encourage the referral of patients to, or the recommendation of, a particular provider for medical products and services. They also require compliance with a variety of safety, health, staffing and other requirements relating to the design and conditions of the licensed facility and quality of care provided. These regulations may also enable the regulatory agency to place liens on the property which may be senior to our secured position. Possible sanctions for violation of these laws and regulations include loss of licensure or certification, the imposition of civil monetary and criminal penalties, and potential exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Failure of our operators to comply with these rules or regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, this area of the law currently is subject to intense scrutiny. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted that could require changes in the design of the properties and our joint venture's operations and thus increase the costs of these operations. State law may limit the availability of certain types of healthcare facilities for our acquisition or development and may limit our ability to replace obsolete properties. Certificate-of-Need laws may impose investment barriers for us. Some states regulate the supply of some types of retirement facilities, such as skilled nursing facilities or assisted living facilities, through Certificate-of-Need laws. A Certificate-of-Need typically is a written statement issued by a state regulatory agency evidencing a community's need for a new, converted, expanded or otherwise significantly modified retirement facility or service which is regulated pursuant to the state's statutes. These restrictions may create barriers to entry or expansion and may limit the availability of properties for our acquisition or development. In addition, we may invest in properties which cannot be replaced if they become obsolete unless such replacement is approved or exempt under a Certificate-of-Need law. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire. We are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans provide us the right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment and other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Our operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we 31 are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. Risks Related to the Investment Management Business The organization and management of our Funds may create conflicts of interest. As we expand our business, in addition to managing the assets of our term debt transactions, our intention as a company is to establish and manage off-balance-sheet funds. In July 2007, we formed our Securities Fund, in which we intend to prospectively conduct our real estate securities investment business. We are the manager, and have a combined general partner and limited partner interest of 30% in the Securities Fund, at December 31, 2007. The Securities Fund, along with new funds we may establish, which together are referred to as our "Funds," will hold assets that we determine should be acquired by the vehicles and doing so may create conflicts of interest, including between investors in these funds and our shareholders. Although as a company we will seek to make these decisions in a manner that we believe is fair and consistent with the operative legal documents governing these investment vehicles, the transfer or allocation of these assets may give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation as a company could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business and our ability to attract investors for future vehicles. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our Funds in many ways, including by reducing the ability of our Funds to raise or deploy capital and by reducing the value or performance of the investments made by our Funds, and could materially reduce our revenue and results of operations. If economic conditions are unfavorable, our Funds may not perform well and we may not be able to raise money for our Funds. A general market downturn, or a specific market dislocation as is the case with the current dislocation in the credit markets, may cause the revenue and results of operations of our Funds to decline by causing: •the net asset value of the assets under management to decrease, lowering management fees; •lower investment returns, reducing incentive income; and •investor redemptions, resulting in lower fees. Furthermore, while difficult market conditions may increase opportunities to make certain distressed asset investments, such conditions also increase the risk of default with respect to investments held by our Funds. Our Funds may also be adversely affected by difficult market conditions if they fail to predict the adverse effect of such conditions on particular investments, resulting in a significant reduction in the value of those investments. The creation and management of investment vehicles will require us to register with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act and subject us to costs and constraints that we are not currently subject to. A consequence of creating and managing investment vehicles, including term debt vehicles, is that we will be required to register with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act. Registered investment advisers must establish policies and procedures for their operations and make regulatory filings. The Investment Advisers Act and the rules and regulations under this Act generally grant the SEC broad administrative powers, including, in some cases, the power to limit or 32 restrict doing business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. These laws and regulations have increased, and could further increase, our expenses and require us to devote substantial time and effort to legal and regulatory compliance issues. In addition, the regulatory environment in which investment advisors operate changes frequently and regulations have increased significantly in recent years. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. We may use capital to preserve the existence of our Funds. Our existing Fund is, and our new Funds may be, subject to mark-to-market volatility and may at times be subject to margin calls or require other financial assistance from us. We have, and may in the future, provide all or a portion of the capital necessary to preserve our Funds, including by satisfying margin calls if the Funds are not able to meet such obligations without our assistance or by providing credit or credit support. Our results of operations may be dependent on the performance of our Funds and the performance of our Funds will impact our ability to raise capital for future funds. Poor performance of our Funds will make it difficult for us to retain or attract investors to our Funds and to grow our business. The performance of each fund we manage is subject to some or all of the following risks: •Limited operating history. The entities comprising our existing fund were recently organized and do not have an operating history upon which prospective investors can evaluate their likely performance. The past performance of the principals of our existing fund, or any new funds, will not be necessarily indicative of the future results of the Funds. There can be no assurance that our existing fund or new funds, if any, will achieve their investment objectives. •Investors in our existing fund and, likely, our new funds, may redeem their investments after a stated lock-up period or elect to remove us as manager of the Funds at any time without cause upon approval of 50% of the limited partners of our Funds. Investors in our existing fund are, and investors in our future funds will likely be, able to redeem their investments on an annual or quarterly basis, subject to the applicable Fund's specific redemption provisions, and remove us as manager of the Funds without cause upon approval of 50% of the limited partners in the Fund (excluding us). Investors may decide to move their capital away from our funds to other investments or remove us as manager of the Funds for any number of reasons in addition to poor investment performance. Factors which could result in investors leaving our Funds include changes in interest rates which make other investments more attractive, changes in investor perception regarding the Fund's focus or alignment of interest, unhappiness with changes in or broadening of a Fund's investment strategy, changes in our reputation, and departures or changes in responsibilities of key investment professionals. In a declining financial market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our assets under management could accelerate. The decrease in our Funds' revenues that would result from significant redemptions in our Funds may have a material effect on our business by reducing our management fees and incentive income, and could result in significant reputational damage as well. If we were removed as a manager of any fund, we would no longer be entitled to receive management or incentive fees, which may have a material effect on our business, and such removal could also cause significant reputational damage to us. •Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our Funds may be subject to significant subjectivity and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our Funds. There are no readily-ascertainable market prices for illiquid investments in our Funds. The value of the investments of our Funds will be determined 33 periodically by us based on the fair value of such investments. The fair value of investments is determined using a number of methodologies, which are described in the existing Fund's valuation policies. These policies are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment, the length of time the investment has been held, the trading price of securities, restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we may use in valuing individual investments will be based on a variety of estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and actual results related to the investment therefore often vary materially as a result of the inaccuracy of such assumptions or estimates. •Risks in using prime brokers and custodians. Our Funds will depend on the services of prime brokers and custodians to carry out certain securities transactions. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker and/or custodian, our Funds might not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the prime broker and custodian's unsecured creditors in relation to assets which the prime broker or custodian borrows, lends or otherwise uses. In addition, the Funds' cash held with a prime broker or custodian will not be segregated from the prime broker's or custodian's own cash, and the Funds will therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto. Risks Related to Middle-Market Corporate Lending In addition to the risks associated with investing in real estate debt and real estate securities, through our joint venture with Monroe Capital, we have made middle-market loans to borrowers outside of the real estate industry, including highly leveraged borrowers. In March 2007, we entered into a joint venture with Monroe Capital Holdco, LLC, or "Monroe," which serves as a platform for originating middle-market loans. The joint venture, which we refer to as "Monroe Capital" or the "joint venture," has commenced making senior and subordinate secured loans to middle-market corporations, including middle-market loans to highly leveraged borrowers. As of December 31, 2007, we owned a 95% controlling interest in the joint venture and consolidated it in our financial statements. This type of lending is very competitive and requires skills that differ from those we have developed through investing in real estate debt, net lease properties and real estate securities and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this business. In addition, to the extent we lend to borrowers that have high levels of debt relative to the amount of their equity capital, there is a heightened risk of loss and the additional rate of interest that we earn on these loans may not fully compensate us for the additional risk. Loans to middle-market borrowers are subject to a number of significant risks including the following: •Middle-market businesses may have limited financial resources and may not be able to repay the loans we make to them. Our strategy for this business includes providing financing to borrowers that typically is not readily available to them. While we believe that this provides an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits, this may make it difficult for the borrowers to repay their loans to us upon maturity. A borrower's ability to repay its loan may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. •Middle-market businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. Because our target borrowers are smaller businesses, they will tend to be more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, these borrowers may face intense competition, including competition 34 from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing and other capabilities and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. •There is generally little or no publicly available information about these businesses. Because we expect that these loans will be made to privately owned businesses, we expect that there will generally be little or no publicly available operating and financial information about our potential borrowers. As a result, we will rely on our JV partners and our officers to perform due diligence investigations of these borrowers, their operations and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses through our investigations. •Middle-market businesses generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that these borrowers may have significant variations in their operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle, all of which will adversely impact our ability to be repaid. •Middle-market businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of middle-market business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on these borrowers and, in turn, their ability to repay us. •Middle-market businesses are likely to have greater exposure to economic downturns than larger businesses. We expect that these borrowers will have fewer resources than larger businesses and will not have the benefit of real estate to provide to us as collateral and that an economic downturn is more likely to have a material adverse effect on them. If one of these borrowers is adversely impacted by an economic downturn, its ability to repay our loan would be diminished. •Middle-market businesses may have limited operating histories. While we intend to target stable companies with proven track records, we may make loans to new companies that meet our other investment criteria. Borrowers with limited operating histories will be exposed to all of the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. Monroe Capital uses credit facilities to finance its investments. If Monroe Capital is unable to securitize its loans or is required to post additional collateral to support its credit facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Monroe Capital uses credit facilities to finance its loan investments. If Monroe Capital is not able to securitize its loans, or is unable to extend or renew its existing credit facilities on terms that it finds economically justifiable, Monroe Capital will most likely be unable to operate its business and increase its assets under management, and therefore its ability to increase its earnings, could be severely restricted. Additionally, if the market value of the loans pledged or sold by Monroe Capital to a funding source decline in value, Monroe Capital may provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. Monroe Capital may not have the funds available to pay down its debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support its credit facilities will reduce Monroe Capital's liquidity and limit its ability to leverage its assets. In the event Monroe Capital does not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate certain 35 indebtedness and terminate its ability to borrow. Such a situation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Monroe Capital's liquidity position could be adversely affected if it is unable to complete additional collateralized loan transactions on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Monroe Capital depends on the availability of the leveraged loan markets to create additional liquidity under its credit facilities for use in funding new loans. There is currently limited liquidity, if any, in the leveraged loan markets due to investor concerns surrounding the overall credit markets, among other things. These concerns have materially impacted investor demand for such transactions. If Monroe Capital is not able to issue new collateralized loan transactions, or is unable to do so on terms that it finds economically justifiable, it will be unable to operate its business utilizing this strategy and its ability to increase its assets under management, and therefore its ability to increase earnings, could be severely restricted. A prolonged downturn in the leveraged loan markets will cause Monroe Capital to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, may cause it to liquidate assets at prices that could result in significant losses to the joint venture and may require it to further adjust its business plan. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Residential Land Investments In addition to the risks associated with investing in real estate debt and real estate securities, we have recently formed a joint venture with Whitehall Street Global Real Estate Limited Partnership 2007 that may make residential land investments in strategic markets throughout the United States, including loans to homebuilders secured by first priority liens and short term mezzanine financing and land option contracts. In order to continue to expand our business, we have recently entered into the Land Cap joint venture with Whitehall Street Global Real Estate Limited Partnership 2007, which will opportunistically invest in single family residential land through land loans, lot option agreements and land purchases. Although the venture is managed by professionals who have extensive experience in the single family housing sector housing sector, this type of lending is very competitive and requires skills that differ from those we have developed through investing in commercial real estate debt, net lease properties and real estate securities and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this business. The joint venture is managed by a team of professionals with experience in the homebuilding and single family housing sector. In addition, to the extent we lend to residential homebuilders that have high levels of debt relative to the amount of their equity capital, there is a heightened risk of loss and the additional rate of interest that we earn on these loans may not fully compensate us for the additional risk. Although the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole is experiencing a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale, we believe that investments in residential land may provide an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits. Nonetheless, in addition to the risks associated with the continuing decline of the homebuilding industry as a whole, the residential homebuilding industry is substantially impacted by additional risks, including fluctuations in market value of undeveloped land, large amounts of buildable lots and housing inventories as a result of changing economic and market conditions, seasonality and adverse weather conditions, raw material and labor shortages, price fluctuations, government regulation, including delays or refusals from government agencies to grant necessary licenses, permits and approvals, and product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. Any of these risks could materially affect a homebuilder borrower's business and its ability to repay the loans we make to it. 36 Risks Related to International Investments Any non-U.S. investments we may make would be subject to various risks associated with investments and operations in foreign countries, which could adversely impact our results. We may make investments internationally. These investments involve special risks compared with investing exclusively in the United States and our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •exchange rate controls; •tariffs or other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; •potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; •interest rates; •the need to comply with a broader array of regulatory and licensing requirements, the failure of which could result in fines, penalties or business suspensions; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •differing labor regulations; •requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; •the costs and difficulties of managing international operations and strategic partnership alliances; •restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in various jurisdictions; •potential political instability and the actions of foreign governments; and •restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. If we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. Difficulty of enforcing legal rights may negatively affect the results of our non-U.S. investments. It may be difficult to obtain judgments or enforce contractual or other legal rights in certain foreign countries. For example, legal proceedings in certain jurisdictions may take many years longer to complete than similar proceedings in the United States or other more developed countries. In addition, once a judgment is obtained in a foreign country, it may be difficult to enforce or collect the judgment for a variety of reasons. The inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities related to our current or acquired properties could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We may be required to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which we make foreign investments. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. 37 Investing internationally will mean that we may make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, which will be subject to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets, which may adversely impact our returns on non-dollar denominated investments. We may purchase and originate real estate investments and CMBS denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that our exposure, if any, would be principally to the British Pound and the Euro. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely impact returns on our non-dollar denominated investments when we convert those returns to U.S. dollars for purposes of our financial reporting and if we convert the foreign currency back into U.S. dollars. We may hedge our foreign currency risk, subject to the REIT income qualification tests. However, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Risks Related to Our Company Our ability to operate our business successfully would be harmed if key personnel with long-standing business relationships terminate their employment with us. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our key personnel, including certain of our executive officers and Mr. Hamamoto in particular. For instance, the extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and nature of the relationships they have developed with real estate developers and financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. Our executive officers have significant real estate investment experience. We cannot assure you of their continued employment with us. The loss of services of certain of our executive officers could harm our business and our prospects. Our Board of Directors has adopted certain incentive plans to create incentives that will allow us to retain and attract the services of key employees. One of these plans is referred to as our Outperformance Plan. In order for the Outperformance Plan to have any value and for awards to be made to employees under the Outperformance Plan, the company's total return to shareholders must exceed certain levels. If these levels are not achieved, we will ultimately not grant any awards under this plan to members of our management or other of our employees who provide services to us. As a result of not achieving such levels and potentially as a result of the decline in our stock price, which has an impact on equity awards previously granted to our employees, we may be unable to motivate and retain our management and these other employees. Our inability to motivate and retain these individuals could also harm our business and our prospects. Additionally, competition for experienced real estate professionals could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract qualified employees, which could result in higher compensation expenses to us. If our risk management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. However, our risk management techniques and strategies may not fully mitigate the risk exposure of our operations in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in our operations or to seek adequate risk-adjusted returns. See "Business—Business Strategy". The use of estimates and valuations may be different from actual results, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, including financial instruments under SFAS No. 159 "Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities," accounting for 38 goodwill, establishing provisions for potential losses that may arise from loans that we make and potential litigation liability. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our real estate securities and term debt equity. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than our estimate of their current fair value. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual values and results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. We are highly dependent on information systems, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. As a financial services firm, our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our stock and our ability to pay dividends. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term "investment securities," among other things, are securities issued by majority owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses through subsidiaries, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception from the definition of "investment company" in Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own directly, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through these subsidiaries. We believe that neither our operating partnership nor the subsidiary REIT through which we hold the substantial majority of our investments are investment companies because each of them satisfy the 40% test of Section 3(a)(1)(C). We must monitor their holdings to ensure that the value of their investment securities does not exceed 40% of their respective total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Certain of our other subsidiaries do not satisfy the 40% test, but instead rely on exceptions and exemptions from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act that either limits the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or the manner in which these subsidiaries may acquire and sell assets. For instance, certain of our term debt transactions rely on the exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act provided by Rule 3a-7 thereunder, which is available for certain structured financing vehicles. This exemption limits the ability of these term debt transactions to sell their assets and reinvest the proceeds from asset sales. Our subsidiary that invests in net lease properties relies on the exception from the definition of "investment company" provided by Sections 3(c)(6) and 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, and certain of our other term debt transactions similarly rely on the 3(c)(5)(C) exception from the definition of "investment company." These provisions exempt companies that primarily invest in real estate, mortgages and certain other qualifying real estate assets. When a term debt transaction relies on the exception from the definition 39 of "investment company" provided by 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, the term debt transaction is limited in the types of real estate related assets that it could invest in. Our subsidiaries that engage in operating businesses and satisfy the 40% test are also not subject to the Investment Company Act. If the combined value of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception provided by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own directly exceeds 40% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of our control. This could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's shares or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the Board of Directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the Board of Directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the Board of Directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. 40 The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the Board of Directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has exempted any business combinations (a) between us and NorthStar Capital Investment Corp. ("NCIC"), or any of its affiliates and (b) between us and any person, provided that any such business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements do not apply to business combinations between us and any of them. As a result, such parties may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions in the statute. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and authorizes our board, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board could establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Maryland law also allows a corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act, and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its Board of Directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to a classified board, unless its charter prohibits such an election. Our charter contains a provision prohibiting such an election to classify our board under this provision of Maryland law. This makes the company more vulnerable to a change in control. If our stockholders voted to amend this charter provision and to classify our Board of Directors, the staggered terms of our directors could reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risks Related to Our REIT Tax Status Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. 41 Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our stock. We hold a substantial majority of our assets in a majority owned subsidiary, which we refer to as our private REIT. Our private REIT is organized to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our private REIT must also meet all of the REIT qualification tests under the Internal Revenue Code. If the private REIT did not qualify as a REIT, it is likely that we would also not qualify as a REIT. If, for any reason, we failed to qualify as a REIT and we were not entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to so qualify. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow funds to make distributions to stockholders or otherwise depend on external sources of capital to fund such distributions. To qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we may elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain. In that case, a shareholder would be taxed on its proportionate share of our undistributed long-term gain and would receive a credit or refund for its proportionate share of the tax we paid. A shareholder, including a tax-exempt or foreign shareholder, would have to file a federal income tax return to claim that credit or refund. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. While we intend to continue to make distributions sufficient to avoid imposition of the 4% tax, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. We anticipate that distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income, although a portion of such distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gain to the extent attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that such distribution exceeds our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes due to, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders (for example, if a borrower defers the payment of interest in cash pursuant to a contractual right or otherwise). If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to distribute enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Because of the distribution requirement, it is unlikely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund future capital needs, we likely will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including both debt and equity financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our stock. 42 We could fail to qualify as a REIT if the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenges our treatment of our mezzanine loans and repurchase agreements. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, disagrees with the application of these provisions to our assets or transactions, including assets we have owned and past transactions, our REIT qualification could be jeopardized. For example, IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from it will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. Moreover, our mezzanine loans typically do not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in mezzanine loans in a manner that we believe will enable us to continue to satisfy the REIT gross income and asset tests. In addition, we have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our mortgage assets to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the owner of the mortgage assets that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that we transferred record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the mortgage assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our ability to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. Even if the IRS were to disagree with one or more of our interpretations and we were treated as having failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, we could maintain our REIT qualification if our failure was excused under certain statutory savings provisions. However, there can be no guarantee that we would be entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions if we failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, and even if we were entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions, we could be required to pay a penalty tax. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. As discussed above, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Additionally, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise attractive to us in order to satisfy the source of income requirements for qualifying as a REIT. 43 We must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets), and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences, unless certain relief provisions apply. As a result, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of profit maximization and may require us to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. In general, income from hedging transactions does not constitute qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income requirements. To the extent, however, that we enter into a qualified hedging contract to reduce interest rate risk or foreign currency risk on indebtedness incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, any income that we derive from the contract would be excluded from gross income for purposes of calculating the REIT 95% gross income test if specified requirements are met, but would not be excluded and would not be qualifying income for purposes of calculating the REIT 75% gross income test. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our mortgage, preferred equity or other investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a stockholder. Legislation enacted in 2003 and 2006 generally reduced the federal income tax rate on most dividends paid by corporations to investors taxed at individual rates to a maximum of 15% through the end of 2010. REIT dividends, with limited exceptions, do not benefit from the rate reduction, because a REITs income is generally not subject to corporate level tax. As such, this legislation could cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to investors taxed at individual rates than shares in REITs and could have an adverse effect on the value of our stock. The stock ownership restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time 44 during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person, including entities, may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of stock or more than 9.8% in value or number (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. The board may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Despite these restrictions, it is possible that there will be five or fewer individuals who own more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders. Our dividends that are attributable to excess inclusion income will likely increase the tax liability of our tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders, and stockholders with net operating loss. In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income as defined in Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to our stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt entity under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. A foreign stockholder would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their net operating losses. Although the law is not entirely clear, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on our excess inclusion income allocated to "disqualified organizations" (generally tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income) that own our stock in record name. To the extent that our stock owned by "disqualified organizations" is held in street name by a broker/dealer or other nominee, the broker/dealer or nominee would be liable for a tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of the "disqualified organizations." A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are "disqualified organizations." Excess inclusion income could result if a REIT held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, excess inclusion income also may be generated if a REIT issues debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments of these obligations bear a relationship to the payments that the REIT received on mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities securing those debt obligations. Although we do not hold any REMIC residual interests, we anticipate that certain of the term debt transactions conducted by our private REIT will produce excess inclusion income that will be allocated to our stockholders. Accordingly, we expect that a portion of our dividends will constitute excess inclusion income, which will likely increase the tax liability of tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders, stockholders with net operating losses, regulated investment companies and other pass-through entities whose record name owners are disqualified 45 organizations, and brokers/dealers and other nominees who hold stock on behalf of disqualified organizations. The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. If we securitize loans in a manner that was for federal income tax purposes treated as a sale of the loans we may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Because of the inability to offset capital losses against ordinary income, we may have REIT taxable income, which we would be required to distribute to our stockholders, in a year in which we are not profitable under GAAP principles or other economic measures. We may deduct our capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains, and not against our ordinary income, in computing our REIT taxable income for a given taxable year. Consequently, we could have REIT taxable income, and would be required to distribute such income to our stockholders, in a year in which we are not profitable under GAAP principles or other economic measures. We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries. We have elected to treat several Cayman Islands companies, including issuers in term debt transactions, as taxable REIT subsidiaries. We intend to treat certain income inclusions received with respect to our equity investments in those foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. Because there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. If our foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and that they would have available to pay their creditors. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging that tax treatment, it would greatly reduce the amount that those foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 46 