Risk Factors.” We have added compliance managers and employees to our compliance team around the world to ensure compliance with regulations of specific countries and regions. We have developed and are constantly enhancing our global compliance program to stay current with the most recent legal and regulatory changes. Anti-Money Laundering Compliance: Compliance with money transfer regulations, including but not limited to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, is a primary focus. Our money transfer services are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations of the United States, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, as well as the anti-money laundering laws and regulations in many of the countries in which we operate, particularly in the European Union. Countries in which we operate may require one or more of the following: • reporting of large cash transactions and suspicious activity and screening of transactions against the various governments’ watch-lists, including but not limited to, the watch list maintained by the US Treasury Departments’ Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”); • prohibition of transactions in, to or from certain countries, governments, individuals and entities; • limitations on amounts that may be transferred by a consumer or from a jurisdiction at any one time, or over specified periods of time; • consumer information gathering and reporting requirements; • consumer disclosure requirements, including language requirements and foreign currency restrictions; • notification requirements as to the identity of contracting agents, governmental approval of contracting agents and/or requirements and limitations on contract terms with our agents; and • registration or licensing of the Company and/or our agents with a state agent in the US or with the central bank or other proper authority in a country. 6 Table of Contents Regulations impacting money transfers are constantly evolving and vary from country to country. We continue to implement policies and procedures and work to make our business practices flexible in order to help us comply with the most current legal requirements. In most cases, our money transfer services are offered through third party agents with whom we contract and our ability to directly control our agent compliance is limited. As a money services business, the Company and its agents are required to establish anti-money laundering compliance programs that include: (i) internal policies and controls; (ii) designation of a compliance officer; (iii) ongoing employee training; and, (iv) an independent review function. We have developed an anti-money laundering training manual available in multiple languages and a program to assist with the education of our agents on the various rules and regulations. We plan to implement a new on-line training system in 2007. Certain economic and trade sanctions programs administered by OFAC prohibit or restrict transactions to or from, or dealings with, certain countries. For instance, the Company is authorized to conduct transactions with consumers in Cuba pursuant to license C-49656 issued by OFAC on July 19, 1999. However, we chose to discontinue service in Cuba in September 2006 due to excessive regulatory requirements and low consumer use. Additionally, transactions in regions that are under the control of the Palestinian Authority are carefully monitored for compliance with OFAC requirements. The Company will continue to assess the relative regulatory requirements and risks as compared to the consumer demand for services in certain government identified high-risk countries. Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing: In the United States, virtually all states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico require us to be licensed in order to conduct business within their jurisdiction. Requirements to be so licensed generally include minimum net worth, provision of surety bonds, compliance with operational procedures and reserves or “permissible investments” that must be maintained in an amount equivalent to all outstanding payment obligations issued by us. The types of securities that are considered “permissible investments” vary from state to state, but generally include U.S. government securities and other highly rated debt instruments. Most states require us to file reports on a quarterly or more frequent basis to verify our compliance with their requirements and subject us to periodic examinations. Many states also require that money transmitters and issuers of payment instruments, as well as their agents that offer these products and services, comply with federal and state anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Escheat Regulation: Unclaimed property laws of every state, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico require that we track the relevant information on each payment instrument and money transfer and, if unclaimed at the end of the statutory abandonment period, that we remit the proceeds of the unclaimed property to the appropriate jurisdiction. State abandonment periods for payment instruments and money transfers range from three to seven years. Certain foreign jurisdictions also may have unclaimed property laws, though we do not have material amounts subject to any such law. Privacy Regulations: In the ordinary course of our business, we collect certain types of consumer data and thus are subject to certain privacy laws in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “GLB Act”), which requires that financial institutions have in place policies regarding the collection, processing, storage and disclosure of information considered nonpublic personal information. We comply with the GLB Act by posting a privacy notice on our website, as well as by posting a privacy notice on the forms completed by consumers in order to use services (for example, on our money transfer “send” form). In addition, we collect personal data flowing from the European Union to other countries, and thus are subject to the European Personal Data Protection Directive (the “Directive”). The Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to non-EU member nations that do not provide adequate protection for personal data. We comply with the safe harbor permitted by the Directive by filing with the U.S. Department of Commerce, publicly declaring our privacy policy for information collected outside of the United States, posting our privacy policy on our website and requiring our agents in the EU to notify customers of the privacy policy. In some cases the privacy laws of an EU member state may be more restrictive than the Directive and may impose additional duties, and we must comply with those additional restrictions. We also have confidentiality/information security standards and procedures in place for our business activities and with our third-party vendors and service providers. Privacy and information security laws in various jurisdictions are evolving regularly and conflicting laws in various jurisdictions pose challenges. 7 Table of Contents Other: In the United States, the Company sells its own MoneyGram-branded stored value card and also loads stored value cards of other card issuers through our ExpressPayment system. Stored value services are generally subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including laws related to consumer protection, licensing, escheat, anti-money laundering and the payment of wages. These laws are evolving, unclear and sometimes inconsistent. The extent to which these laws apply to the Company is in flux and we are currently unable to determine the impact that any future clarification, changes or interpretation of these laws will have on our services. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, and trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights in products, services, know-how and information. Intellectual property laws afford limited protection. Certain rights in processing equipment, software and business processes held by us and our subsidiaries provide us with a competitive advantage, even though not all of these rights are protected under intellectual property laws. It may be possible for a third party to copy our products and services or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without our permission. U.S. patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date a patent application is filed. We own U.S. and foreign patents related to our money order technology. Our U.S. patents have in the past given us competitive advantages in the marketplace, including a number of patents for automated money order dispensing systems and printing techniques, many of which have expired. We also have patent applications pending in the United States that relate to our money transfer, money order, PrimeLink and bill payment technologies and business methods. We anticipate that these patents, if granted, will give us continued competitive advantages in the marketplace. However, our competitors are also actively patenting their technology and business processes. U.S. trademark registrations are for a term of 10 years and are renewable every 10 years as long as the trademarks are used in the regular course of trade. We register our trademarks in the U.S. and in a number of other countries where we do business. We maintain a portfolio of trademarks representing substantial goodwill in our businesses. Many of our trademarks, including the MoneyGram®, ExpressPayment®, our globe with arrows logo, PrimeLink®, PrimeLinkplus®, AgentConnect®, DeltaWorks®, and Delta T3® marks have substantial importance and value to our business. Relationship with Viad We entered into various agreements with Viad governing our division of liabilities at the time of the spin-off, including a Separation and Distribution Agreement, an Employee Benefits Agreement and a Tax Sharing Agreement. An Interim Services Agreement with Viad terminated in 2006. Additionally, we purchased a corporate aircraft from Viad, 50% in 2005 and the remainder in 2006. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Employees At December 31, 2006, we had approximately 1,782 full-time employees in the United States and 294 full-time employees internationally. In addition, we use contractors to support certain of our domestic and international sales and marketing efforts. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we consider our employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant Philip W. Milne, age 47, has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a Director of MoneyGram since June 2004. He was named Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2007. He is also the President and Chief Executive Officer of MPSI and its predecessor, Travelers, our principal operating subsidiary, a position he has held since 1996. Mr. Milne joined Travelers in 1991 and served as General Manager of the official check business from 1991 until early 1992, as Vice President, General Manager of the Payment Systems segment from 1992 until early 1993, and as Vice President, General Manager of the Retail Payment Products group from 1993 to 1996. David J. Parrin, age 52, has served as the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of MoneyGram since November 2005. Mr. Parrin previously served as the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MoneyGram since June 2004 and Travelers since joining the Company in June 2002. From 1998 to 2002, he was with the investment firm of Dain Rauscher Corporation (now RBC Dain Rauscher Corporation), serving since 1999 as 8 Table of Contents Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From 1994 to 1998, he served as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that, Mr. Parrin spent 17 years with the accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, serving most recently as audit partner. David A. Albright, age 50, has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer of MoneyGram since November 2005. Mr. Albright previously served as Vice President of Information Technology since joining the Company in May 2000. From June 1983 to May 2000, Mr. Albright was the Director of Information Technology for Minnegasco, a division of Reliant Energy, Inc., an energy supply and distribution company. Mr. Albright began his career at Gambles, Inc., a retail company, where he held various technical positions in the Information Technology division from 1974 to 1983. Jean C. Benson, age 39, has served as the Vice President, Controller of MoneyGram since June 2004. Ms. Benson previously served as the Vice President, Controller of Travelers since joining the Company in August 2001. From 1994 to 2001, Ms. Benson was at Metris Companies, Inc., a financial products and services company, serving as Corporate Controller and Executive Vice President of Finance since 1996. Ms. Benson began her career as an auditor with the accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP from 1990 to 1994. Mary A. Dutra, age 55, has served as Executive Vice President, Global Payment Processing and Settlement of MoneyGram since August 2006. Ms. Dutra previously served as Executive Vice President/Division President Payment Systems from November 2005 to August 2006, Vice President of MoneyGram and General Manager of Payment Systems from June 2004 to November 2005 and as General Manager and Vice President, Global Operations of Travelers from November 1994 to June 2004. Ms. Dutra joined the Company in 1988 as Manager of Payment Services of Travelers Express Company, Inc. and has served in positions of increasing responsibility. Timothy J. Gallaher, age 39, has served as Vice President, Investor Relations of MoneyGram since April 2005. He was named Treasurer of MoneyGram in October 2006. Mr. Gallaher previously served as Director of Corporate Planning and Analysis from December 2002 to April 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gallaher spent eight years with U.S. Bancorp working in planning, corporate development and commercial banking. Thomas E. Haider, age 48, has served as Vice President Government Affairs and Associate Corporate Counsel since October 2000. He was named Chief Compliance Officer of MoneyGram in November 2005. Mr. Haider joined the Company in 1992 as an Attorney and held various other positions through October 2000. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Haider spent seven years representing the Minnesota League of Credit Unions in both legislative and regulatory matters. Teresa H. Johnson, age 55, has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of MoneyGram since November 2005. Ms. Johnson previously served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of MoneyGram since June 2004 and Chief Legal Counsel of Travelers since joining the Company in 1997. From 1992 to 1997, she was employed at SUPERVALU INC., a food retailer and distributor, serving most recently as Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. William J. Putney, age 44, has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer of MoneyGram since November 2005. Mr. Putney previously served as Vice President, Chief Investment Officer of MoneyGram from June 2004 to November 2005 and as Vice President, Chief Investment Officer of Travelers from 1996 to 2004. Mr., Putney joined the Company in 1993, serving as Portfolio Manager. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Putney held positions as a trader, investment analyst and portfolio manager. Anthony P. Ryan, age 44, has served as Executive Vice President/President, MoneyGram Global Payment Products and Services since August 2006. Mr. Ryan previously served as Executive Vice President/Division President Global Funds Transfer from November 2005 to August 2006 and Vice President of MoneyGram and General Manager of Global Funds Transfer from June 2004 to November 2005, a position he had held at Travelers since 2001. He previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Travelers from 1997 to 2001 and as Controller from 1996 to 1997. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ryan spent 10 years at First Data Corporation, serving most recently as Director of Finance. Cindy J. Stemper, age 49, has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities of MoneyGram since November 2005. Ms. Stemper previously served as Vice President of Human Resources and Facilities of MoneyGram from June 2004 to November 2005 and Vice President of Human Resources at Travelers from 1996 to June 2004. Ms. Stemper joined the Company in 1984 and has since served in positions of increasing responsibility. 9 Table of Contents Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at 1550 Utica Avenue South, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55416, and our telephone number is (952) 591-3000. Our website address is www.moneygram.com. We make our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports, available electronically free of charge in the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Item 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Therefore, the following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. RISK FACTORS If we lose key retail agents or are unable to maintain our Global Funds Transfer agent network, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain all of our current retail agents. The competition for retail agents is intense, and larger agents are increasingly demanding financial concessions and more information technology customization. The development and equipment necessary to meet agent demands could require substantial capital expenditures. If we were unable to meet these demands, we could lose agents and our volume of money transfers would be substantially reduced. If agents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents, our revenue would decline. Existing agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition. An agent may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. A substantial portion of our transaction volume is generated by a limited number of key agents. During 2006 and 2005, our ten largest agents accounted for 31 percent of our total revenue and 44 percent and 46 percent, respectively, of the revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. Our largest agent, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for 17 percent and 13 percent of our total revenue and 24 percent and 19 percent of the revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment in 2006 and 2005, respectively. If any of these key agents were not to renew their contracts with us, or if such agents were to reduce the number of their locations, or cease doing business, we might not be able to replace the volume of business conducted through these agents, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. There are risks associated with the check cashing industry that could cause this portion of our agent base to decline. Any regulatory action that adversely affects check cashers could also cause this portion of our agent base to decline. If we lose large financial institution customers in our Payment Systems segment, our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. During 2006 and 2005, our ten largest financial institution customers accounted for 10 percent and 13 percent, respectively, of our total revenue and 36 percent and 39 percent, respectively, of the revenue of our Payment Systems segment in 2006 and 2005. Our largest financial institution customer generated 4 percent of our total revenue and 12 percent and 11 percent of the revenue in our Payment Systems segment in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The loss of any of our top financial institution customers could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to successfully develop and timely introduce new and enhanced products and services or we make substantial investments in an unsuccessful new product or service, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced methods of providing money transfer, money order, official check, bill payment and related services that keep pace with competitive introductions, technological changes and the demands and preferences of our agents, financial institution customers and consumers. Many of our competitors offer stored-value cards and other electronic payment mechanisms, including various internet-based payment services, that could be substituted for traditional forms of payment, such as the money orders, bill payment and money transfer services that we offer. If these alternative payment mechanisms become widely substituted for our products and services, and we do not develop and ramp up similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Additionally, we may make future investments and/or enter into strategic alliances to develop new technologies and services to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. Investments in new technologies and strategic alliances are inherently risky and we cannot guarantee that such investments or alliances will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property rights related to our existing and any new or enhanced products and services, or if we are unable to avoid infringing on the rights of others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We also investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties to prevent our infringement of those rights. We may be subject to claims of third parties that we infringe or have misappropriated their proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to defend any such claims and/or to protect and police our own rights. Some intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection or to successfully defend against an intellectual property infringement action could harm our business and prospects. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and we face a variety of competitors across our businesses. In addition, new competitors or alliances among established companies may emerge. Our primary competition comes from Western Union, which has substantially greater transaction volume than we do. Western Union has a larger agent base, a more established brand name and substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We cannot anticipate what, if any, effect Western Union will have on our business or the money transfer industry. Money transfer, money order and walk-in bill payment services within the Global Funds Transfer segment of our business competes in a concentrated industry, with a small number of large competitors and a large number of small, niche competitors. Our large competitors are other providers of money orders and money transfer services, including Western Union and the U.S. Postal Service with respect to money orders. We also compete with banks and niche person-to-person money transfer service providers that serve select send and receive corridors. The electronic bill payment services within the Global Funds Transfer segment of our business compete in a highly fragmented consumer to business payment industry. Competitors in the electronic payments area include financial institutions, third parties that host financial institution and biller payment services, third parties that offer payment services directly to consumers and billers offering their own bill payment services. The Payment Systems segment of our business competes in a concentrated industry with a small number of large competitors. Our competitors in this segment are Integrated Payment Systems, a subsidiary of First Data Corporation, and Federal Home Loan Banks. We also compete with financial institutions that have developed internal processing capabilities or services similar to ours and do not outsource these services. Recent levels of growth in consumer money transfer transactions and other payment products may not continue. In addition, consolidation among payment services companies has occurred and could continue. If we are unable to compete effectively in the changing marketplace, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our agents and MoneyGram are subject to a number of risks relating to U.S. and International regulatory requirements which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties or changes in their or our business operations that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations which vary from country to country. The money transfer business is subject to a variety of regulations aimed at the prevention of money laundering and terrorism. We are subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA Patriot Act, the requirements of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which prohibit us from transmitting money to specified countries or on behalf of prohibited individuals and the anti-money laundering laws in many countries where we operate, particularly in the EU. We are also subject to financial services regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, currency control regulations, escheat laws, laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security and consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws. Many of the laws to which we are subject are evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. Any intentional or negligent violation of the laws and regulations set forth above by our employees or our agents could lead to significant fines and/or penalties, and could limit our ability to conduct business in some jurisdictions. In addition to those direct costs, a failure by us or our agents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards, or interpretations of legal or regulatory requirements may occur which could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business, could require significant systems redevelopment, reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. If onerous regulatory requirements were imposed on our agents, they could lead to a loss of agents, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of retail business. Failure by us or our agents to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of applicable regulatory authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company conducts money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile and/or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. The Company conducts money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile and/or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. While the Company has instituted policies and procedures to protect against violations of law, it is possible that the Company’s money transfer service or other products could be used by wrong-doers in a contravention of U.S. law or regulations. In addition to monetary fines or penalties that the Company could incur, the Company is also subject to reputational harm that could adversely impact the value of the shareholder’s investment. We face security risks related to our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. A material breach of security of our systems could harm our business. Any significant security or privacy breaches in our facilities, computer networks and databases could harm our business and reputation, cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities, and cause a loss of customers. We rely on encryption software and other technologies to provide security for processing and transmission of confidential customer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect customer transaction data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our confidential customer information. If users gain improper access to our or our contractor’s 12 Table of Contents systems or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential customer information. A security breach could lead to reputational harm and make our customers less confident in our services. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money, and, as a result, our business is particularly dependent on our ability to process and settle transactions accurately and on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money. Our revenues consist primarily of transaction fees that we charge for the movement of this money and investment revenues. These transaction fees represent only a small fraction of the total amount of money that we move. Because we are responsible for large sums of money that are substantially greater than our revenues, the success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of the money that is remitted to us and that is used to clear payment instruments or complete money transfers. We rely on the ability of our employees and our internal systems and processes to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In addition, we rely on third-party vendors in our business, including clearing banks which clear our money orders and official checks and certain of our telecommunications providers. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, or physical break-in), security breach, improper operation or any other event impacting our systems or processes or our vendors’ systems or processes, or improper action by our employees, agents, customer financial institutions or third party vendors, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system failures. We may also experience software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. Certain of our agent contracts, including Wal-Mart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our system, and give the agent a right to collect damages and in extreme situations a right of termination for system downtime exceeding agreed upon service levels. If we face system interruptions and system failures our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or damages that we may incur. We face credit and fraud risks from our retail agents. The vast majority of our Global Funds Transfer business is conducted through independent agents that provide our products and services to consumers at their business locations. Our agents receive the proceeds from the sale of our payment instruments and money transfers and we must then collect these funds from the agents. As a result, we have credit exposure to our agents, which averages approximately $1.2 billion in the aggregate, representing a combination of money orders, money transfers and bill payment proceeds. During 2006, this credit exposure was spread across almost 29,000 agents, of which 13 owed us in excess of $15.0 million each at any one time. We are not insured against credit losses, except in circumstances of agent theft or fraud. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit money order or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer. Moreover, we have made, and may in the future make, secured or unsecured loans to retail agents under limited circumstances or allow agents to retain our funds for a period of time before remitting them to us. The failure of agents owing us large amounts to remit funds to us or to repay such amounts could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and our financial condition. An increase in fraudulent activity using our services could lead to reputational damage to our brand and could reduce the use and acceptance of our services. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As we make more of our services available over the internet we are subject ourselves to new types of credit and fraud risk, as requirements such as customer authentication are more complex with internet services. If fraud levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention and reputational and financial damage to our brand. This in turn could reduce the use and acceptance of our services and/or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Litigation or investigations involving our agents or MoneyGram which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, the subject of class actions, regulatory actions, investigations or other litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions or investigations is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs or law enforcement agencies in these types of lawsuits or investigations may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of these actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend or settle future lawsuits or investigations may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with lawsuits and investigations that could decrease customer acceptance of our agents and our services. As a result, litigation or investigations involving our agents or MoneyGram may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and our use of derivatives. Our credit risk includes the potential risk that the Company may not collect on interest and/or principal associated with its investments, as well as counterparty risk associated with its derivative financial instruments. Approximately 89 percent of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2006 consisted of securities that are not issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government. If the issuer of any of these securities were to default in its payment obligations to us or to otherwise experience credit problems, the value of the investments would decline and adversely impact our investment portfolio and our earnings. At December 31, 2006, we were party to derivative instruments, known as swaps, having a notional amount of $2.6 billion. These swap agreements are contracts in which we and a counterparty agree to exchange periodic payments based on a fixed or variable rate of interest on a given notional amount, without the exchange of the underlying notional amounts. The notional amount of a swap agreement is used to measure amounts to be paid or received and does not represent the amount of exposure to credit loss. At any point in time, depending upon many factors including the interest rate environment and the fixed and variable rates of the swap agreements, we may owe our counterparty or our counterparty may owe us. If any of our counterparties to these swap agreements were to default in its payment obligation to us or otherwise experience credit problems, we could be adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by fluctuations in interest rates. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the investment of funds we receive from the sale of payment instruments, such as official checks and money orders, until these instruments are settled. We generally invest these funds in long-term fixed-income securities. We pay the financial institutions to which we provide official check outsourcing services a commission based on the average balance of funds produced by their sale of official checks. This commission is generally calculated on the basis of a variable rate based on short-term financial indices, such as the federal funds rate. In addition, we have agreements to sell, on a periodic basis, undivided percentage interests in some of our receivables from agents at a price that is discounted based on short-term interest rates. To mitigate the effects of interest rate fluctuations on our commission expense and the net proceeds from our sales of agent receivables, we enter into variable-to-fixed rate swap agreements. These swap agreements require us to pay our counterparty a fixed interest rate on an agreed notional amount, while our counterparty pays us a variable interest rate on that same notional amount. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the value and amount of revenue produced by our investment portfolio, the amount of commissions that we pay, the net proceeds from our sale of receivables and the amount that we pay or receive under our swap agreements. As a result, our net investment revenue, which is the difference, or “spread,” between the amount we earn on our investment portfolio and the commissions we pay and the discount on the sale of receivables, net of the effect of the swap agreements, is subject to interest rate risk as the components of net investment revenue are not perfectly matched through time and across all possible interest rate scenarios. Certain investments in our portfolio, primarily fixed-rate mortgage-backed investments, are subject to prepayment with no penalty to the borrower. As interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay fixed-rate debt, resulting in cash flows that are received earlier than expected. Replacing the higher-rate investments that prepay with lower rate investments could reduce our net investment revenue. Conversely, an increase in interest rates may result in slower than expected prepayments and, therefore, cash flows that are received later than expected. In this case, there is risk that the cost of our commission payments may reprice faster than our investments and at a higher cost, which could reduce our net investment revenue. 14 Table of Contents Material changes in the market value of securities we hold, or in the securities as to which we act as an advisor, may materially affect our results of operation and financial condition. We also bear market risk that arises from fluctuations in interest rates that may result in changes in the values of our investments and swap agreements. Rate movements can affect the repricing of assets and liabilities differently, as well as their market value. Stockholders’ equity can be adversely affected by changing interest rates, as after-tax changes in the fair value of securities classified as available-for-sale and after-tax changes in the fair value of our swaps are reflected as increases and decreases to a component of stockholders’ equity. The fair value of our swaps generally increases when the market value of fixed rate, long-term debt investments decline and vice versa. However, the changes in the fair value of swaps and investments may not fully offset, which could adversely affect stockholders’ equity. The market values of securities we hold may decline due to a variety of factors, including decline in credit rating of the issuer or credit issues related to underlying collateral of the security, general market conditions and increases in interest rates for comparable obligations. If we determine that an unrealized loss on a security is “other-than-temporary,” the loss becomes a realized loss through an impairment charge in the income statement. Our wholly owned subsidiary has entered into an agreement to act as collateral advisor for a pool of investment securities owned by a third party. Deterioration in the value or performance of this investment pool, while not directly related to the company’s own performance, could adversely affect the business and prospects of the collateral advisor. The opening of new retail locations and acquisition or start-up of businesses create risks and may affect our operating results. We have recently opened several Company owned retail locations for the sale of our products and services. Operating such retail locations presents new risks for us. After substantial capital investment in such retail locations it is uncertain how such locations will be accepted in the market and how quickly transaction volume will increase to offset such investment. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations which are triggered by our ownership of the retail locations and our employment of the individuals staffing such retail locations. We also become subject to certain risks inherent in operating any retail location including theft, personal injury and property damage, risks associated with long-term lease obligations and employee matters. Additionally, we may from time to time acquire or start-up businesses both inside and outside of the U.S. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses that we acquire, including their facilities, personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, we could experience increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The diversion of capital and management’s attention from our core business that results from opening retail locations and/or acquiring or starting-up new businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material slow down or complete disruption in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The money transfer business relies in part on migration patterns, as individuals move from their native country into countries with greater economic opportunities and/or a more stable political environment. A significant portion of money transfer transactions are initiated by immigrants or refugees sending money back to their native countries. Changes in immigration laws, economic development patterns that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for individuals to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our money transfer remittance volume or growth rate and could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may require cash in amounts greater than the amount of available credit facilities and liquid assets that we have on hand at a particular time, and if we were forced to ultimately liquidate assets or secure other financing as a result of unexpected liquidity needs, our earnings could be reduced. We are subject to risks relating to daily liquidity needs, as well as extraordinary events, such as the unexpected loss of a customer. On a daily basis, we receive remittances from our agents and financial institution customers and we 15 Table of Contents must clear and pay the financial instruments that were previously sold and currently are presented for payment. We monitor and maintain a liquidity portfolio along with credit lines and repurchase agreements in order to cover payment service obligations as they are presented. If we were forced to liquidate portfolio assets or secure other financing as a result of unexpected liquidity needs, our earnings could be reduced. In addition, if we were to lose any of our significant customers, in addition to losing the related revenues, we may have to liquidate investments or seek to borrow for a period of time to fund our obligation to clear the outstanding instruments issued on behalf of that customer at the termination of its contract. We may not be able to plan effectively for every customer contract termination, which could result in sale of investments at a loss of or lower profits than we would otherwise realize due to prevailing market conditions. Additionally, a security breach could lead to reputational harm and make our customers less confident in our services. An inability for our agents or for us to maintain adequate banking relationships may adversely affect our financial condition. We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses, or “MSBs,” in the United States under the Bank Secrecy Act. The federal banking regulators are increasingly taking the stance that MSBs, as a class, are high risk. As a result, several financial institutions, which look to the federal regulators for guidance, have terminated their banking relationships with some of our agents and one with us. If agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. Any inability on our part to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships could adversely affect our business, results of operations and our financial condition. There are a number of risks associated with our international sales and operations that could harm our business. We provided money transfer services between and among approximately 170 countries and territories at December 31, 2006, and our strategy is to expand our international business. Our ability to grow in international markets and our future results could be harmed by a number of factors, including: • changes in political and economic conditions and potential instability in certain regions; • changes in regulatory requirements or in foreign policy and the adoption of foreign laws detrimental to our business; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations; • possible fraud or theft losses, and lack of compliance by international representatives in remote locations and foreign legal systems where collection and enforcement may be difficult or costly; • reduced protection for our intellectual property rights; • unfavorable tax rules or trade barriers; • inability to secure, train or monitor international agents; and • failure to successfully manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse affect on our business and stock price. Due to our July 1, 2004 spin-off and new status as a public company, 2005 was the first year in which we were required to certify and report on our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In order to achieve effective internal controls we may need to enhance our accounting systems or processes which could increase our cost of doing business. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Our charter documents, our rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company, which could inhibit your ability to receive a premium on your investment from a possible sale of our Company. Our charter documents contain provisions that may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire our Company. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan which enables our Board of Directors to issue preferred share purchase rights that would be triggered by certain prescribed events. These provisions and specific provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a merger or change in control of our Company. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of our Company even if stockholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or if a significant number of our stockholders believed such a proposed transaction to be in their best interests. As a result, stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS None. 