Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe CRE industry has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets generally.Our business and operations are dependent on the CRE industry generally, which in turn is dependent upon broad economic conditions in the United States and abroad. The U.S. economy improved in 2013 but at a slower than expected pace. Challenges still remain due to the uncertainty of the political climate, including federal budget deficits, debt ceiling, gridlock, Federal Reserve policy, concern with emerging market economies and other matters and their impact to the U.S. economy. We would expect this dynamic, along with global market instability and the risk of maturing CRE debt that may have difficulties being refinanced, to continue to cause periodic volatility in the market for some time which in turn could impact the CRE industry generally and our business and operations specifically. Adverse conditions in the CRE industry could harm our business and financial condition by, among other factors, reducing the value of our existing assets, limiting our access to debt and equity capital, harming our ability to originate new CRE debt and acquire other CRE investments and otherwise negatively impacting our operations.Challenging economic and financial market conditions could significantly reduce the amount of income we earn on our CRE investments and further reduce the value of our investments. Challenging economic and financial market conditions have and may continue to cause us to experience an increase in the number of CRE debt investments that result in delinquencies, non-performing assets and taking title to collateral and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our investments, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur substantial loan losses and need to establish significant provision for loan losses even with respect to loans that are performing in accordance with their contractual terms and consequently do not constitute non-performing loans. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of, or an increase in provision for loan losses. The decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default may continue for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal amount, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted loan. Legal proceedings, which may include taking title to collateral and bankruptcy proceedings, are expensive and time consuming and may not result in the recovery of our principal. The decrease in interest income and the costs involved in pursuing our legal remedies will reduce the amount of cash available to meet our expenses and adversely impact our liquidity and operating results.Risks Related to the Spin-off of Our Asset Management BusinessThe spin-off of our asset management business may not have the benefits we anticipate. The spin-off of our asset management business may not have the full or any strategic and financial benefits that we expect or such benefits may be delayed or may not materialize at all. The anticipated benefits of the spin-off are based on a number of assumptions, which may prove incorrect. For example, we believe that investors and analysts will regard NSAM’s focused asset management business more favorably as a separate company than as part of our existing portfolio and strategy and thus place a greater value on NSAM as a separate public company than as a business that is a part of ours. In the event that the spin-off does not have these and other expected benefits, the costs associated with the transaction, including an expected increase in general and administrative expenses, could have a negative effect on our financial condition and ability to make distributions to the stockholders of each company. Following the spin-off of our asset management business, we may not enjoy all of the benefits that we have prior to the spin-off. Prior to the spin-off of our asset management business, we share benefits of scope and scale in costs and expenses resulting from various factors including financial reporting, costs associated with complying with federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), tax administration and insurance. While we plan to enter into a management agreement with NSAM that would govern a number of our commercial and other relationships after the spin-off, those arrangements may not fully capture the benefits we enjoy as a result of common ownership prior to the spin-off.19Table of ContentsThe combined post-spin-off value of us and NSAM common stock may not equal or exceed the pre-spin-off value of our common stock.After the spin-off, our common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE. NSAM common stock is expected to be listed on the NYSE under the symbol “NSAM.” We cannot assure that the combined value of us and NSAM after the spin-off, as adjusted for any changes for the combined capitalization of us or NSAM, will be equal to or greater than the value of our common stock prior to the spin-off. Until the market has fully evaluated our business without NSAM, the value of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Similarly, until the market has fully evaluated the business of NSAM, the value of its common stock may fluctuate significantly.If the spin-off of our asset management business and the related restructuring transactions and distribution that will occur in connection with the spin-off do not qualify as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders and NSAM could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, NSAM could be required to indemnify us for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations. The spin-off is conditioned on the receipt by us of opinions from our tax advisors substantially to the effect that: (i) the restructuring transactions, which will facilitate the distribution of NSAM common stock to our stockholders in connection with the spin-off, or the distribution, will be tax-free; and (ii) the distribution should be tax-free to us and our stockholders. The tax opinions that we will receive from our tax advisors will rely on, among other things, certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business and the business of NSAM, and the opinions would not be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect in any material respect. We have not sought and will not receive a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regarding the tax consequences of the restructuring transactions or the distribution. Consequently, notwithstanding the tax opinions, the IRS could determine that the restructuring transactions and/or the distribution should be treated as taxable transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be provided that the opinions we receive will not be successfully challenged by the IRS. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for our fair market value and our stockholders who receive shares of NSAM’s common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares, most of which would be treated as a taxable dividend because of the taxable gain that we would recognize on the distribution. If the restructuring transactions are not tax-free, then our stockholders may recognize gain or loss, as applicable, equal to the difference between: (i) the aggregate fair market value of the stockholder’s shares of our common stock; and (ii) the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in our stock. Even if a stockholder does not recognize all of the gain or loss in its common stock, we may recognize capital gain if certain of the restructuring transactions are taxable. In that event, we will either have to make additional capital gains dividends to our stockholders or pay tax on net long-term capital gain that we retain, in which case our stockholders will be required to include in income their proportionate share of such long-term capital gain and will receive a credit for their share of any tax we pay on such long-term capital gain. Under the distribution agreement related to spin-off, NSAM generally will be required to indemnify us against any tax resulting from the spin-off to the extent that such tax resulted from: (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of NSAM’s equity securities or assets, whether by merger or otherwise; (ii) other actions or failures to act by NSAM; or (iii) any of NSAM’s representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. NSAM’s indemnification obligations to us and our subsidiaries, officers and directors will not be limited by any maximum amount. If NSAM is required to indemnify us or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the distribution agreement, NSAM may be subject to substantial liabilities. If the distribution that will occur in connection with the spin-off of our asst management business does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could lose our qualification as a REIT. If the distribution that will occur in connection with the spin-off does not qualify for tax-free treatment under the U.S. federal income tax laws, we could lose our qualification as a REIT. Specifically, if the distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment, the taxable gain that we would recognize on the distribution would equal the excess of the fair market value of our common stock distributed over our adjusted tax basis in such stock. The gain from that taxable sale may cause us to fail to satisfy the 75% gross income test required for REIT qualification. Unless that failure qualifies for a statutory REIT savings provision, we will fail to qualify as a REIT for the year in which the distribution occurs and we would be prohibited from electing REIT status for the following four taxable years. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal and applicable state and local income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Losing REIT status would reduce our cash available for investment or distribution to our stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to our stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction and we would no longer be required to make distributions. Even if our failure to satisfy the 75% gross income test qualified for the statutory REIT savings provision, we would likely have to pay a material penalty tax. Finally, even if the distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution, it 20Table of Contentsmight be taxable to us under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if the distribution were later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquired, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in NSAM or us. If Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code applies as a result of such an acquisition, we would recognize a taxable gain and, as a result, may fail to satisfy the 75% gross income test applicable to REITs, as described above. Any adverse changes in NSAM’s financial health, the public perception of NSAM or our relationship with NSAM or its affiliates could hinder our operating performance and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In connection with the proposed spin-off of our asset management business, we will enter into a management agreement with NSAM or one of its affiliates to manage our day-to-day operations and our investments. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and grow our business, other than our CRE debt origination business, is dependent upon the performance of NSAM and its affiliates in the acquisition of investments, the determination of any financing arrangement and the management of our assets and operation of our day-to-day activities under the supervision of, and subject to the policies and guidelines established by, our board of directors.Because NSAM is expected to be publicly-traded, any negative reaction by the stock market reflected in its stock price or deterioration in the public perception of NSAM could result in an adverse effect on our ability to acquire assets and obtain financing from third parties on favorable terms or at all. In addition, NSAM will depend, in part, upon the management and other fees and reimbursement of costs that it will receive from us and NSAM’s other managed companies, including our Sponsored Companies, in connection with the acquisition, management and sale of assets to conduct its operations. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of NSAM or its affiliates, or our relationship with NSAM and its affiliates, could hinder NSAM’s ability to successfully support our business and growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.NSAM’s platform may not be as scalable as we anticipate and we could face difficulties growing our business without significant new investment in personnel and infrastructure by NSAM.While we believe NSAM’s platform for operating our business is highly scalable and can support significant growth in our business without substantial new investment in personnel and infrastructure on a relative basis, we may be wrong in that assessment. Our business has grown substantially over the course of the past several years, which has placed significant additional demands on management and other personnel, as well as our support infrastructure. It is possible that if our business continues to grow substantially or that the business of the other companies managed by NSAM, including our Sponsored Companies, continues to grow, NSAM will need to make significant investments in personnel and infrastructure to support that growth. NSAM may be unable to make significant investments on a timely basis or at reasonable costs and its failure in this regard could disrupt our business and operations.Failure of NSAM to effectively perform its obligations under the various agreements we anticipate entering into with them, including the long-term management agreement and the services agreement, could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.Upon consummation of the spin-off, we will engage NSAM to provide asset management and other services to us pursuant to a long-term management agreement and other ancillary agreements. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to make distributions to stockholders will depend in substantial part upon the performance of NSAM and its ability to provide us with asset management and other services. If for any reason NSAM is unable to perform such services as well as the other services described under these agreements at the level we anticipate, alternate service providers may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our performance and materially harm our ability to execute our business plan.In addition, the management agreement with NSAM will only be terminable by us for cause. We cannot terminate the management agreement for any other reason, including if NSAM performs poorly or is unable to acquire and manage our investments successfully. The term “cause” is limited to specific circumstances to be laid out in the management agreement, including NSAM’s breach of the management agreement or gross negligence that has a materially adverse effect on us. Termination for unsatisfactory financial performance does not constitute “cause” under the management agreement. In addition, we will be contractually committed to NSAM’s management for an initial term of 20 years from the date we enter into the management agreement, with automatic renewal terms thereafter. These provisions increase our risk that NSAM may not perform well and our business could suffer. If NSAM’s performance as our manager does not meet our or our stockholders’ expectations, and we are unable to terminate the management agreement, the market price of our common stock could suffer.Moreover, pursuant to the management agreement, we will agree to provide NSAM with all investment opportunities for the acquisition or origination of real estate assets that are presented to our employees or of which any of our employees become 21Table of Contentsaware. NSAM will agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to fairly allocate such investment opportunities among us and its other managed, including our Sponsored Companies, companies in accordance with an investment allocation policy; however, investment allocations will be determined by NSAM in its sole discretion and there can be no assurance that we will be allocated any of the investment opportunities we source. NSAM will also have the ability, without our consent, to revise the investment allocation policy in connection with obtaining additional managed companies. If NSAM fails to effectively allocate investments to us, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives, which could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.The annual base management fee we expect to pay to NSAM is payable regardless of the performance of our portfolio.Following consummation of the spin-off, we will pay NSAM an annual base management fee regardless of the performance of our portfolio. NSAM’s entitlement to compensation regardless of our performance might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking assets that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio, particularly if other management agreements to which NSAM is a party have a performance-based fee structure. Consequently, we may be required to pay NSAM significant base management fees in a particular quarter despite experiencing a net loss or a decline in the value of our portfolio during that quarter. This in turn could hurt both our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.The fees we will pay to NSAM in connection with the origination, acquisition and management of our investments pursuant to the proposed management agreement with NSAM were not determined on an arm’s length basis; therefore, we do not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties.The fees we will pay to NSAM for services it will provide for us pursuant to the proposed management agreement will not be determined on an arm’s length basis. As a result, the fees will be determined without the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties and may be in excess of amounts that we would otherwise pay to third parties for such services; however, the final terms of any such agreement are subject to the approval by our board of directors, including a majority of the independent members thereof.There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with NSAM that could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders.We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with NSAM and its affiliates. In particular, we expect to compete for investment opportunities directly with other companies and/or accounts that NSAM manages. Certain of NSAM’s managed companies, including our Sponsored Companies, have investment mandates and objectives that target the same investments as us. In addition, NSAM may have additional managed companies that compete directly with us for investment opportunities in the future. We will adopt an investment allocation policy with NSAM that is intended to ensure that investments are allocated fairly and appropriately among us and the other NSAM managed companies over time. We may compete with NSAM’s other managed companies for investment or financing opportunities sourced by NSAM; however, we may either not be presented with the opportunity or have to compete with NSAM’s other managed companies to acquire these investments or have access to these sources of financing. In addition, pursuant to the management agreement, we will agree that all loan originations we source must be made available to NSAM for the benefit of us and the other managed companies, including our Sponsored Companies. NSAM and our executive officers may choose to allocate favorable investments, including loan originations that we source, to its other managed companies instead of to us. Further, at times when there are turbulent conditions in the real estate markets or distress in the credit markets or other times when we will need focused support and assistance from NSAM, NSAM’s other managed companies may likewise require greater focus and attention, placing NSAM’s resources in high demand. In such situations, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we may receive if we were internally managed or if NSAM did not act as a manager for other entities. There is no assurance that our investment allocation policy with NSAM that address some of the conflicts relating to our access to investment and financing sources will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise.We will rely on NSAM’s executive officers and investment professionals to perform services for us, including Messrs. Hamamoto, Tylis, Gilbert and Lieberman and Ms. Hess for the day-to-day operation of our business. Messrs. Hamamoto, Tylis, Gilbert and Lieberman and Ms. Hess are also executive officers of us and other managed companies, including our Sponsored Companies. As a result of their interests in other managed companies and the fact that they engage in and they continue to engage in other business activities on behalf of others, these individuals face conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us, NSAM and other managed companies, including our Sponsored Companies, and other business activities in which they are involved. In addition, our executive officers and certain management personnel performing services for NSAM will own equity interests in NSAM and its affiliates and NSAM may grant additional equity interests in NSAM or its affiliates to such persons in connection with their continued services. These conflicts of interest, as well as the loyalties of these individuals to other entities and investors, could result in action or inaction that is detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy, our investment opportunities and the returns on our investments. 22Table of ContentsIf we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets.NSAM will receive substantial base management fees regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Refer to “-The annual base management fee we expect to pay to NSAM is payable regardless of the performance of our portfolio.” above. In addition, NSAM will have the ability to earn incentive fees each quarter based on our CAD, which may create an incentive for NSAM to invest in assets with higher yield potential, which are generally riskier or more speculative or sell an asset prematurely for a gain and pay down debt, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the incentive fees to which it is entitled. Furthermore, the compensation payable to NSAM will increase as a result of future issuances of our equity securities, even if the issuances are dilutive to existing stockholders. If our interests and those of NSAM are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.NSAM will manage our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board of directors does not approve each investment and financing decision made by NSAM unless required by our investment guidelines.NSAM will be authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines established by our board of directors. Our board of directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our portfolio of assets but does not, and is not required to, review all of our proposed investments, except in limited circumstances as set forth in our investment guidelines. Our board of directors may also make modifications to our investment guidelines from time to time as it deems appropriate. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews or modifying our investment guidelines, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by NSAM. Furthermore, transactions entered into by NSAM may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of directors. NSAM has flexibility within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types and amounts of assets in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, or may otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders.NSAM’s liability will be limited under the management agreement and we will agree to indemnify NSAM and its affiliates against all liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the spin-off.In connection with the spin-off, we will enter into a management agreement and various other agreements with NSAM. These agreements will govern our relationship with NSAM and will also provide that all liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the spin-off will remain with us. NSAM will maintain a fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the management agreement, and subject to applicable law, NSAM, its directors, officers, employees, partners, managers, members, controlling persons, and any other person or entity affiliated with NSAM will not be liable to us or its subsidiaries for acts taken or omitted to be taken in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except those resulting from acts of willful misfeasance or bad faith in the performance of NSAM’s duties under the management agreement. In addition, subject to applicable law, we will agree to indemnify NSAM and each of its directors, officers, employees, partners, managers, members, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with NSAM from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with NSAM’s performance of its duties or obligations under the management agreement or otherwise as our manager, except where attributable to acts of willful misfeasance or bad faith in the performance of NSAM’s duties under the management agreement.NSAM expects to be subject to extensive regulation as an investment adviser, which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.NSAM or one or more of its affiliates expects to be subject to regulation as an investment adviser by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting the interests of its managed companies, including us. Instances of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the investment management industry and disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry have led the U.S. government and regulators in foreign jurisdictions to consider increasing the rules and regulations governing, and oversight of, the financial system. This activity is expected to result in continued changes to the laws and regulations governing the investment management industry and more aggressive enforcement of the existing laws and regulations. NSAM could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanction, including revocation of its registration as an investment adviser, revocation of the licenses of its employees, censures, fines, or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, if it is found to have violated any of these laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.NSAM must continually address conflicts between its interests and those of its managed companies, including us. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We believe that NSAM will implement procedures and controls that are reasonably designed to address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and if NSAM fails, or appears to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of 23Table of Contentsinterest, it could face litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business. Risks Related to Our InvestmentsA prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could harm our investments.Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to financial losses and a decrease in revenues, earnings and assets. An economic slowdown or recession, in addition to other non-economic factors such as an excess supply of properties, could have a material negative impact on the values of our investments. Declining real estate values will likely reduce our level of new loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our CRE debt investments if the economy weakens and property values decline. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our investments in the event of a default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, taking title to collateral or losses could adversely affect both our CRE investments as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We are subject to significant competition and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments.We are subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly-traded REITs, non-traded REITs, insurance companies, commercial and investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors. We have observed increased competition in 2013 and expect that to continue into 2014. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. If we pay higher prices for investments or originate loans on less advantageous terms to us, our returns may be lower and the value of our assets may not increase or may decrease significantly below the amount we paid for such assets. If such events occur, we may experience lower returns on our investments.We have no established investment criteria limiting the geographic concentration of our investments. If our investments are concentrated in an area that experiences adverse economic conditions, our investments may lose value and we may experience losses.Certain of our investments may be secured by a single property or properties in one geographic location. Additionally, properties that we may acquire may also be concentrated in a geographic location. These current and future investments carry the risks associated with significant geographical concentration. We have not established and do not plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. As a result, properties underlying our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas and we may experience losses as a result. A worsening of economic conditions, a natural disaster or civil disruptions in a geographic area in which our investments may be concentrated could have an adverse effect on our business, including reducing the demand for new financings, limiting the ability of borrowers to pay financed amounts and impairing the value of our collateral.We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent and make riskier investments.We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from and possibly riskier than the investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and commercial real estate market fluctuations.We will be subject to additional risks if we make investments internationally.We may acquire real estate assets located outside of the United States and we may originate or acquire senior or subordinate loans made to borrowers located outside of the United States or secured by properties located outside of the United States. Our expertise to date is in the United States and neither we nor NSAM have expertise in international markets. Any international investments we make may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the borrower or the property is located and these laws may expose us to risks that are different from and/or in addition to those commonly found in the United States. We and NSAM may not be as familiar with the potential risks to our investments outside of the United States and we may incur losses as a result.Any international investments we make could be subject to the following risks: governmental laws, rules and policies including laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property or mortgages and laws relating to the ability of foreign persons or corporations to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person's or corporation's country of origin; variations in currency exchange rates; adverse market conditions caused by inflation or other changes in national or local economic conditions; changes in relative interest rates; changes in the availability, cost and terms of borrowings resulting from varying national economic policies; changes in real estate and other tax rates, the tax treatment of transaction structures and 24Table of Contentsother changes in operating expenses in a particular country where we have an investment; our REIT tax status not being respected under foreign laws, in which case any income or gains from foreign sources would likely be subject to foreign taxes, withholding taxes, transfer taxes, and value added taxes; lack of uniform accounting standards (including availability of information in accordance with U.S. GAAP); changes in land use and zoning laws; more stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws; changes in the social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting a country where we have an investment; and legal and logistical barriers to enforcing our contractual rights in other countries. Certain of these risks may be greater in emerging markets and less developed countries. Each of these risks might adversely affect our performance and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders required to maintain our REIT qualification. In addition, there is less publicly available information about foreign companies and a lack of uniform financial accounting standards and practices (including the availability of information in accordance with U.S. GAAP) which could impair our ability to analyze transactions and receive timely and accurate financial information from tenants or borrowers necessary to meet our reporting obligations to financial institutions or governmental or regulatory agencies.We may not be effective in originating and managing our investments.We originate and generally manage our investments. Our origination capabilities depend on our ability to leverage our relationships in the market and deploy capital to borrowers and tenants/operators that hold properties meeting our underwriting standards. Managing investments requires significant resources, adherence to internal policies and attention to detail. Managing investments may also require significant judgment and, despite our expectations, we may make decisions that result in losses. If we are unable to successfully originate investments on favorable terms, or at all, and if we are ineffective in managing those investments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.The CRE debt we originate and invest in and mortgage loans underlying the CRE securities we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, taking title to collateral, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower under the loan. If the borrower defaults, it may result in losses to us. Our CRE debt investments are secured by commercial real estate and are subject to risks of delinquency, loss, taking title to collateral and bankruptcy of the borrower. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced or is not increased, depending on the borrower’s business plan, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of a property can be affected by each of the following factors, among other things: •local, regional or macroeconomic economic conditions;•tenant/operator mix;•success of tenant/operator businesses;•property management decisions;•property location and condition;•property operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes and maintenance costs;•competition from comparable types of properties;•changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation;•changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged;•any need to address environmental contamination at the property;•the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property;•changes in local, regional, national or international economic conditions and/or specific industry segments;•declines in local or regional real estate values;•branding, marketing and operational strategies;•declines in local or regional rental or occupancy rates;•increases in interest rates;•natural disasters;•social unrest and civil disturbances;•terrorism; and25Table of Contents•increases in costs associated with leasing, renovation and/or construction.Any one or a combination of these factors may cause a borrower to default on a loan or to declare bankruptcy. If a default or bankruptcy occurs and the underlying asset value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss.Additionally, we may suffer losses for a number of reasons, including the following, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance:•If the value of real property or other assets securing our CRE debt deteriorates. We expect that our CRE debt and securities investments will generally be directly or indirectly secured by a lien on real property. The occurrence of a default on a CRE debt investment could result in our taking title to collateral. We will not know whether the value of the properties ultimately securing our CRE debt and ultimately securing the mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of the underlying CRE debt and the dates of origination of the mortgage loans ultimately securing our CRE securities, as applicable. If the value of the properties drop, our risk will increase because of the lower value of the collateral and reduction in borrower equity associated with the related CRE debt. In this manner, real estate values could impact the value of our CRE debt and securities investments. Our CRE equity investments (investments in real property) may be similarly affected by real estate property values. Therefore, our CRE debt, securities and equity investments will be subject to the risks typically associated with real estate. The majority of our CRE debt investments are fully or substantially non-recourse. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets (including escrowed funds and reserves, if any) collateralizing the debt. For this purpose, we consider CRE debt made to special purpose entities formed solely for the purpose of holding and financing particular assets to be non-recourse. We sometimes also originate CRE debt that is secured by equity interests in the borrowing entities or by investing directly in the owner of the property. There can be no assurance that the value of the assets securing our CRE debt investments will not deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, as was the case during the credit crisis and as a result of the recent economic recession. Mezzanine loans are subject to the additional risk that senior lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrowing entity, whereas the mezzanine loans may be secured by ownership interests in the borrower.•If a borrower or guarantor defaults on recourse obligations under a CRE debt investment. We sometimes obtain personal or corporate guarantees, which are not secured, from borrowers or their affiliates. These guarantees are often triggered only upon the occurrence of certain trigger, or “bad boy,” events. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we will typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. As a result of challenging economic and market conditions, many borrowers and guarantors faced, and continue to face, financial difficulties and were unable, and may continue to be unable, to comply with their financial covenants. If the economy does not strengthen, our borrowers could experience additional financial stress. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our CRE debt and related guarantees.•Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of an entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. This underwriting process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly-organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Furthermore, historic performance evaluated in connection with our underwriting process may not be indicative of future performance.•In the event of a default or bankruptcy of a borrower, particularly in cases where the borrower has incurred debt that is senior to our CRE debt. If a borrower defaults on our CRE debt and the mortgaged real estate or other borrower assets collateralizing our CRE debt are insufficient to satisfy the loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event of a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy our CRE debt. In addition, certain of our CRE debt investments are subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our CRE debt or on debt senior to our CRE debt or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our CRE debt will be satisfied only after the senior debt, if any. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant monetary costs and delays associated with the process of taking title to collateral. Borrower bankruptcies and litigation relating to our assets increased appreciably during the recent economic recession, which required and may 26Table of Contentscontinue to require us to spend significant amounts of money and devote significant senior management resources in order to protect our interests. If the economic markets do not continue to improve, we will continue to experience such costs and delays.•In the event provisions of our CRE debt agreements are adjudicated to be unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our CRE debt investments are governed by loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement or related documentation are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions protecting our security interest in the underlying collateral.Delays in liquidating defaulted CRE debt investments could reduce our investment returns.If there are defaults under the agreements securing the collateral of our CRE debt investments, we may not be able to take title to and sell the collateral securing the loan quickly. Taking title to collateral can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a negative effect on the return on our investment. Borrowers often resist when we seek to take title to collateral by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses, including but not limited to, lender liability claims, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action. In some states, taking title to collateral can take several years or more to resolve. At any time during a foreclosure proceeding, for example, the borrower may file for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure action and further delaying the foreclosure process. The resulting time delay could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted loans. Furthermore, an action to take title to collateral securing a loan is regulated by state statutes and regulations and is subject to the delays and expenses associated with lawsuits if the borrower raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of default by a borrower, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to take title to and sell the collateral securing the loan or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the loan. In addition, we may be forced to operate any collateral for which we take title for a substantial period of time, which could be a distraction for our management team and may require us to pay significant costs associated with such collateral. We may not recover any of our investment even if we take title to collateral.Jurisdictions with one action or security first rules or anti-deficiency legislation may limit the ability to take title to collateral or to realize the obligation secured by the property by obtaining a deficiency judgment.In the event of any default under our CRE debt investments and in the mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities, we bear the risk of loss of principal and nonpayment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal amount of the loan. Certain states in which the collateral securing our CRE debt and securities investments is located may have laws that prohibit more than one judicial action to enforce a mortgage obligation, requiring the lender to exhaust the remedies on such collateral to satisfy the obligation first or limiting the ability of the lender to recover a deficiency judgment from the obligor following the lender’s realization upon the collateral, in particular if a non-judicial foreclosure is pursued. These statutes may limit the right to take title to collateral or to realize the obligation secured by the property by obtaining a deficiency judgment.Our borrowers may be unable to achieve their business plans due to the challenging U.S. and global economic conditions, which could cause incremental stress to our CRE debt investments.Many of our CRE debt investments are made to borrowers who have business plans to improve occupancy and cash flow that may not be accomplished. Slower than expected economic growth pressured by a strained labor market, along with overall financial uncertainty, could result in lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across many property types and may create obstacles for our borrowers attempting to achieve their business plans. If our borrowers are unable to achieve their business plans, our related CRE debt investments could default and severely impact our liquidity and operating results.We are subject to risks associated with future advance or capital expenditure obligations, such as declining real estate values and operating performance.Our CRE debt investments may require us to advance future funds. We may also need to fund capital expenditures and other significant expenses for our real estate property investments. Future funding obligations subject us to significant risks such as that the property may have declined in value, projects to be completed with the additional funds may have cost overruns and the borrower and tenant/operator may be unable to generate enough cash flow and execute its business plan, or sell or refinance the property, in order to repay our CRE debt due. We could determine that we need to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to maximize the value of our investment even though there is no assurance additional funding would be the best course of action. Further, future funding obligations require us to maintain higher liquidity than we might otherwise maintain and this could reduce the overall return on our investments. 27Table of ContentsWe may be unable to restructure our investments in a manner that we believe maximizes value, particularly if we are one of multiple creditors in large capital structures.In order to maximize value we may be more likely to extend and work out an investment, rather than pursue other remedies such as taking title to collateral. However, in situations where there are multiple creditors in large capital structures, it can be particularly difficult to assess the most likely course of action that a lender group or the borrower may take and it may also be difficult to achieve consensus among the lender group as to major decisions. Consequently, there could be a wide range of potential principal recovery outcomes, the timing of which can be unpredictable, based on the strategy pursued by a lender group or other applicable parties. These multiple creditor situations tend to be associated with larger loans. If we are one of a group of lenders, we may be a lender on a subordinated basis, and may not independently control the decision making. Consequently, we may be unable to restructure an investment in a manner that we believe would maximize value. Restructuring an investment may ultimately result in us receiving less than had we not restructured the investment.CRE debt restructurings may reduce our net interest income. Although the CRE market has improved, the U.S. economy and financial markets continue to be challenged. As a result, our borrowers may be at increased risk of default and we, or a third party, may need to restructure loans if our borrowers are unable to meet their obligations to us and we believe restructuring is the best way to maximize value. In order to preserve long-term value, we may determine to lower the interest rate on loans in connection with a restructuring, which will have an adverse impact on our net interest income. We may also determine to extend the maturity and make other concessions with the goal of increasing overall value, however, there is no assurance that the results of our restructurings will be favorable to us. We may lose some or all of our investment even if we restructure in an effort to increase value.Many of our CRE debt investments are funded with interest reserves and our borrowers may be unable to replenish those interest reserves once they run out.Given the transitional nature of many of our CRE debt investments, we generally require borrowers to pre-fund reserves to cover interest and operating expenses until the property cash flow increases sufficiently to cover debt service costs. We also generally require the borrower to refill these reserves if they became deficient due to underperformance and if the borrower wanted to exercise extension options under the loan. Despite low interest rates and improving real estate fundamentals, in the future our borrowers may still have difficulty servicing our CRE debt investments. Historically, many of our borrowers have only been able to meet their obligations to us because of the reserves we set up at the origination of the loans. In the future, many of the reserves may run out and some of our borrowers may have difficulty servicing our debt and will not have sufficient capital to replenish reserves, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and cash flow.Higher provision for loan losses and asset impairment charges are expected if economic conditions do not continue to improve. We could experience defaults resulting in provision for loan losses and asset impairment charges in the future. In challenging economic environments, borrowers, for a variety of reasons, may be unable to remain current with principal and interest on loans. Declines in real property values also increase loan-to-value ratios on our loans and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the likelihood of higher provision for loan losses. Even if our cash flow remains relatively stable, we could suffer losses in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which could adversely affect our stock price, access to credit and ability to satisfy financing covenants. Provision for loan losses are difficult to estimate, particularly in a challenging economic environment.Our provision for loan losses is evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our determination of provision for loan losses requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which may be difficult to determine, particularly in a challenging economic environment. While CRE fundamentals have improved, the U.S. economy and financial markets remain challenged. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flow from the collateral securing our CRE debt, structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for refinancing and expected market discount rates for varying property types, all of which remain uncertain and are subjective. Our estimates and judgments may not be correct, particularly during challenging economic environments, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted.With respect to commercial properties, options and other purchase rights may affect value or hinder recovery in the event of taking title to collateral.A borrower under certain of our CRE debt investments may give its tenants or another person a right of first refusal or an option to purchase all or a portion of the related collateral. These rights may impede our ability to sell the related collateral if we take title or may adversely affect the value or marketability of the collateral. We may also determine to give our tenants a right of first refusal or similar option, which could negatively affect the residual value of the property.28Table of ContentsBoth our borrowers’ and tenants/operators’ forms of entities may cause special risks or hinder our recovery.Most of the borrowers for our CRE debt investments and our tenants/operators in the real estate that we own, as well as borrowers underlying our CRE securities, are legal entities rather than individuals. The obligations these entities owe us are typically non-recourse so we can only look to our collateral, and at times, the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to recover our investment. As a result, our risk of loss may be greater than for originators of loans made to or leases with individuals. Unlike individuals involved in bankruptcies, these legal entities will generally not have personal assets and creditworthiness at stake. As a result, the default or bankruptcy of one of our borrowers or tenants/operators, or a general partner or managing member of that borrower or tenant, may impair our ability to enforce our rights and remedies under the related mortgage or the terms of the lease agreement, respectively.The subordinate CRE debt we originate and invest in may be subject to risks relating to the structure and terms of the related transactions, as well as subordination in bankruptcy, and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our investments, which may result in losses to us. We originate, structure and acquire subordinate CRE debt investments secured primarily by commercial properties, which may include subordinate mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and participations in such loans and preferred equity interests in borrowers who own such properties. We have not placed any limits on the percentage of our portfolio that may be comprised of these types of investments, which may involve a higher degree of risk. These investments may be subordinate to other debt on commercial property and are secured by subordinate rights to the commercial property or by equity interests in the borrower. In addition, real properties with subordinate debt may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional debt, resulting in less equity in the real property and increasing the risk of loss of principal and interest. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, after senior obligations are met, there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate interests. Because each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate investments can vary in their structural characteristics and lender rights. Our rights to control the default or bankruptcy process following a default will vary from transaction to transaction. The subordinate investments that we originate and invest in may not give us the right to demand taking title to collateral as a subordinate real estate debt holder. Furthermore, the presence of intercreditor agreements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Similarly, a majority of the participating lenders may be able to take actions to which we object, but by which we will be bound. Even if we have control, we may be unable to prevent a default or bankruptcy and we could suffer substantial losses. Certain transactions that we originated and invested in could be particularly difficult, time consuming and costly to work out because of their complicated structure and the diverging interests of all the various classes of debt in the capital structure of a given asset.Many of our investments are illiquid and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to further changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us.Many of our investments are illiquid. As a result, our ability to sell investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions could be limited, even at distressed prices. The Internal Revenue Code also places limits on our ability to sell certain properties held for fewer than two years. These considerations could make it difficult for us to dispose of any of our assets even if a disposition is in the best interests of stockholders. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to further changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may result in losses to us.We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses.Most of our CRE securities have explicit ratings assigned by at least one of the major rating agencies (Moody’s Investor Services, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, Morningstar, DBRS and/or Kroll, generally referred to as rating agencies). However, we may invest in unrated CRE securities, enter into leases with unrated tenants/operators or participate in subordinate, unrated or distressed mortgage loans. Because the ability of obligors of properties and mortgages, including mortgage loans underlying CMBS, to make rent or principal and interest payments may be impaired during an economic downtown, prices of lower credit quality investments and CRE securities may decline. The existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments. We have not established and do not currently plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments.Investments in non-conforming or non-investment grade rated CRE debt or securities involve greater risk of loss.Some of our investments may not be rated or will be rated as non-investment grade by the rating agencies. The non-investment grade ratings for these assets typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans or securities, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, these investments may have a higher risk of default and loss than investment grade rated assets. Any loss we incur may be significant and may reduce distributions to stockholders and may adversely affect the value of our common stock.29Table of ContentsInvestments in non-performing real estate assets involve greater risks than investments in stabilized, performing assets and make our future performance more difficult to predict, however, we may still incur losses on performing real estate assets.Traditional performance metrics of real estate assets are generally not as reliable for non-performing real estate assets as they are for performing real estate assets. Non-performing properties, for example, do not have stabilized occupancy rates and may require significant capital for repositioning. Similarly, non-performing loans do not have a consistent stream of cash flow to support normalized debt service. In addition, for non-performing loans, often there is greater uncertainty as to the amount or timeliness of principal repayment.In addition, we may pursue more than one strategy to create value in a non-performing real estate investment. With respect to a property, these strategies may include development, redevelopment or lease-up of such property. With respect to certain of our CRE debt investments, these strategies may include negotiating with the borrower for a reduced payoff, restructuring the terms of the loan or enforcing our rights as lender under the loan and taking title to collateral securing the loan. The factors described above make it challenging to evaluate non-performing investments. We may further incur losses even on our performing investments. Floating-rate CRE debt, which is often associated with transitional assets, may entail greater risks of default to us than fixed-rate CRE debt.Floating-rate loans are often, but not always, associated with transitional properties as opposed to those with highly stabilized cash flow. Floating-rate CRE debt may have higher delinquency rates than fixed-rate loans. Borrowers with floating-rate loans may be exposed to increased monthly payments if the related interest rate adjusts upward from the initial fixed rate in effect during the initial period of the loan to the rate calculated in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Increases in a borrower’s monthly payment, as a result of an increase in prevailing market interest rates may make it more difficult for the borrowers with floating-rate loans to repay the loan and could increase the risk of default of their obligations under the loan.We may be subject to risks associated with construction lending, such as declining real estate values, cost overruns and delays in completion.Our CRE debt investments may include loans made to developers to construct prospective projects, which may include ground-up construction or repositioning an existing asset. The primary risks to us of construction loans are the potential for cost overruns, the developer’s failing to meet a project delivery schedule and the inability of a developer to sell or refinance the project at completion in accordance with its business plan and repay our CRE debt. These risks could cause us to have to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to complete the project. We may also suffer losses on our CRE debt if the developer is unable to sell the project or refinance our CRE debt investment.Investments that are not insured involve greater risk of loss than insured investments.Unlike agency residential mortgages, the CRE debt we invest in is not insured by any quasi-governmental body or similar third party. Our CRE debt investments may include first mortgage loans, subordinate mortgage and mezzanine loans, preferred equity interests and participations in such loans as well as CRE securities and equity investments. While holding such interests, we are subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments, the value of our company and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected.Insurance may not cover all potential losses on CRE debt investments which may impair the value of our assets.We generally require that each of the borrowers under our CRE debt investments obtain comprehensive insurance covering the collateral, including liability, fire and extended coverage. We also generally obtain insurance directly on any property we acquire. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. We may not require borrowers to obtain certain types of insurance if it is deemed commercially unreasonable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds, if any, might not be adequate to restore the economic value of the mortgaged property, which might decrease the value of the property and in turn impair our investment.Our CRE equity, debt and mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with CRE.Our CRE debt and securities investments are generally directly or indirectly secured by a lien on real property. The occurrence of a default on a CRE debt investment could result in our acquiring ownership of the property. We do not know whether the values of the properties ultimately securing our CRE debt and ultimately securing the mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of these underlying mortgage loans and the dates of origination of the loans ultimately securing our CRE securities, as applicable. If the values of the properties drop, our risk will increase because of the lower value of the collateral and reduction in borrower equity associated with the related loans. In this 30Table of Contentsmanner, real estate values could impact the values of our CRE debt and securities investments. Our CRE equity investments may be similarly affected by real estate property values. Therefore, our CRE equity, debt and securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with real estate, including:•local, state, national or international economic conditions;•real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in an area;•the perceptions of the quality, convenience, attractiveness and safety of the properties;•competition from comparable properties;•the occupancy rate of, and the rental rates charged at, the properties;•the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent;•the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies;•the expense of re-leasing space;•changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage financing;•unknown liens being placed on the properties;•bad acts of third parties;•the ability to refinance mortgage notes payable related to the real estate on favorable terms, if at all;•the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, including costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions affecting properties;•cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA; •adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies;•civil unrest;•acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses);•the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;•adverse changes in state and local laws, including zoning laws; and•other factors which are beyond our control.The value of each property is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the property. Many expenses associated with properties (such as operating expenses and capital expenses) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our borrowers to pay their loans and the ability of the borrowers on the underlying loans securing our securities to pay their loans, as well as on the value and the return that we can realize from assets we originate and acquire.We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property, which will increase the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property or rental income from the property which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The seller of a property often sells such property in an “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, the related real estate purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. Despite our efforts, we may fail to uncover all material risks during our diligence process. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, as well as the loss of rental income from that property if an issue should arise that decreases the value of that property and is not covered by the limited warranties. If any of these results occur, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The price we pay for acquisitions of real property will be based on our projections of market demand, occupancy and rental income, as well as on market factors, and our return on our investment may be lower than expected if any of our projections are inaccurate.31Table of ContentsThe price we pay for real property investments will be based on our projections of market demand, occupancy levels, rental income, the costs of any development, redevelopment or renovation of a newly-acquired property and other factors. In addition, as the real estate market continues to strengthen with the improvement of the U.S. economy, we will face increased competition, which may drive up prices for real estate assets. If any of our projections are inaccurate or we overpay for assets and their value subsequently drops or fails to rise because of market factors, returns on our investment may be lower than expected and could experience losses.Our investments in net lease properties and a substantial portion of our healthcare properties are dependent upon tenants/operators successfully operating their businesses and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We depend on our tenants/operators to manage the day-to-day operations of our real estate properties in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties under their operational control in a manner that does not jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status. The ability of our tenants/operators to fulfill their obligations to us may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations, including any other facilities, properties or businesses they may acquire or operate. The cash flow generated by the operation of our properties may not be sufficient for a tenant/operator to meet its obligations to us. In several cases, a single operator operates several of our healthcare properties and the failure of one operator could materially adversely affect many properties. Tenants/operators who are having trouble with their cash flow are more likely to expose us to unknown liens and other risks to our assets. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our real estate borrowings could be limited if our tenants/operators are unable to meet their obligations to us or we fail to renew or extend our contractual relationship with any of our tenants/operators. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Lease defaults, terminations or landlord-tenant/operator disputes may reduce our income from our real estate investments.The creditworthiness of our tenants/operators in our real estate investments have been, or could become, negatively impacted as a result of challenging economic conditions or otherwise, which could result in their inability to meet the terms of their leases. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more tenants/operators may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant/operator is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant/operator that result in the tenant/operator withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant/operator. Upon a lease default, we may have limited remedies, be unable to accelerate lease payments and have limited or no recourse against a guarantor. Tenants/operators as well as guarantors may have limited or no ability to satisfy any judgments we may obtain. We may also have duties to mitigate our losses and we may not be successful in that regard. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If this occurred, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, two of our healthcare operators account for 6% and 11% of our total rental and escalation income, respectively. The operator that accounts for 11% of our total rental and escalation income recently failed to timely pay its full rental obligations under certain leases. We have agreed to temporarily defer these overdue rent payments and waive compliance with certain financial covenants for this operator. Should this operator default under its leases, the default would trigger cross-defaults under the relevant credit agreements, including cross defaults under an approximately $185 million facility and an approximately $38 million facility, which provide financing for these lease portfolios. We are currently evaluating the situation to determine whether any other action need be taken. While no net lease tenant currently accounts for in excess of 10% of our rental and escalation income, failure or inability of a tenant/operator contributing to a significant percentage of our contractual rental revenue to meet its obligations to us could materially reduce our rental revenue and net income, which could in turn reduce the amount of distributions we pay and cause our stock price to decline. A significant portion of our leases may expire in the same year.A significant portion of the leases for our real estate investments may expire in the same year. For certain of our properties, such as manufactured housing and multifamily, leases are short term in nature and therefore subject to heightened lease turnover risk. Additionally, for certain of our properties which are primarily leased to one tenant/operator, such as our net lease and healthcare properties, lease expirations may coincide with the maturities on the borrowing for such properties subject to such leases. As a result, we could be subject to a sudden and material change in value of our net lease and/or our healthcare portfolio and available cash flow from such investments in the event that these leases are not renewed or in the event that we are not able to extend or refinance the mortgage notes payable on the properties that are subject to these leases.Our lease or management transactions may not result in market rates over time. We expect substantially all of our rental and fee income to come from lease or management transactions, which may have longer terms or renewal options that specify maximum rate increases than standard arrangements. If we do not accurately 32Table of Contentsjudge the potential for increases in market rates, rental and fee increases under the terms may fail to result in fair market rates over time. Further, we may have no ability to terminate our lease or management transactions or adjust the rent and fees to then-prevailing market rates. As a result, our income and distributions to stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not enter into such lease or management agreements. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties underlying CRE debt investments or the properties held by us on favorable terms.The properties underlying CRE real estate debt investments and certain of our real estate investments were negatively impacted by the more recent challenging economic conditions and all of our investments in real estate will continue to be pressured if economic conditions and rental markets continue to be challenging. For example, upon expiration or earlier termination of leases for space located at our properties, the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants/operators) may be less favorable than current lease terms. Weak economic conditions would likely reduce tenants’/operators’ ability to make rent payments in accordance with the contractual terms of their leases and lead to early termination of leases. Furthermore, corporate space needs may contract, resulting in lower lease renewal rates and longer releasing periods when leases are not renewed. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. Additionally, to the extent that market rental rates are reduced, property-level cash flow would likely be negatively affected as existing leases renew at lower rates. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the space at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate cash distributions to stockholders.The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of any of our tenants/operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new tenants/operators.Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major tenants/operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major tenants/operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire.We are exposed to the risk that our tenants/operators may not be able to meet their obligations to us or other third parties, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans permit us to evict a tenant/operator, demand immediate repayment and pursue other remedies, bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant/operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant/operator’s bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs.Bankruptcy laws provide that a debtor has the option to assume or reject an unexpired lease within a certain period of time of filing for bankruptcy, but generally requires such assumption or rejection to be made in its entirety. Thus, a debtor cannot choose to keep the beneficial provisions of a contract while rejecting the burdensome ones; the contract must be assumed or rejected as a whole. Most of our healthcare properties are and will continue to be net leased to an operator operating multiple facilities pursuant to a single master lease. If one or more of our healthcare property operators files for bankruptcy relief, it is possible that in bankruptcy the debtor may be required to assume or reject the master lease in its entirety, rather than making the decision on a property-by-property basis, thereby preventing the debtor from assuming the better performing properties and terminating the master lease with respect to the poorer performing properties. However, where under applicable law a contract (even though it is contained in a single document) is determined to be divisible or severable into different agreements, or similarly, where a collection of documents is determined to constitute separate agreements instead of a single, integrated contract, then in those circumstances a debtor/trustee may be allowed to assume some of the divisible or separate agreements while rejecting the others. If the debtor has the ability, and chooses, to assume some of the divisible agreement while rejecting the other divisible agreements, or if a non-debtor tenant is unable to comply with the terms of an agreement, we may be forced to modify the agreements in ways that are unfavorable to us. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell properties in our portfolio is limited.The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and supply and demand that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Additionally, our healthcare properties are special purpose properties that could not be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Transfers of operations of healthcare properties are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. To the extent we are unable to sell any property for its book value or at all, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our earnings. 33Table of ContentsWe may be required to expend cash to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure that we will have cash available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. We may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of financing that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We may become responsible for capital improvements. To the extent such capital improvements are not undertaken, the ability of our tenants/operators to manage our properties effectively and on favorable terms may be affected, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Although under our typical net lease structure our tenants/operators are generally responsible for capital improvement expenditures, it is possible that a tenant/operator may not be able to fulfill its obligations to keep the facility in good operating condition. To the extent capital improvements are not undertaken or are deferred, occupancy rates and the amount of rental and reimbursement income generated by the facility may decline, which would negatively impact the overall value of the affected facility. We may be forced to incur unexpected significant expense to maintain properties that are net leased. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Compliance with ADA, Fair Housing Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us, our borrowers or our tenants/operators to make unanticipated expenditures which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our properties are required to comply with the ADA, which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. We must also comply with the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits us and our tenants/operators from discriminating against individuals on certain bases in any of our practices if it would cause such individuals to face barriers in gaining residency in any of our facilities. In addition, our properties are required to operate in compliance with applicable fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations and licensing or certification requirements as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies from time-to-time. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with those requirements. Changes in labor and other laws could also negatively impact us, our borrowers and our tenants/operators. For example, changes to labor-related statutes or regulations could significantly impact the cost of labor in the workforce, which would increase the costs faced by our borrowers and tenants/operators and increase their likelihood of default.Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our properties or our real estate-related investments may materially impair the value of our investments.Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, such as us and our tenants/operators, may be liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of, or related releases of, certain hazardous or toxic substances, including materials containing asbestos, at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances, including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances and liability may be imposed on the owner in connection with the activities of a tenant/operator at the property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our or our tenants’/operators’ ability to sell or lease real estate, or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. We, or our tenants/operators, as owner or operator of a site, may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and our or our tenants’/operators’ liability could exceed the value of the property. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect our or our tenants’/operators’ ability to attract additional residents, ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues.The scope of the indemnifications our tenants/operators have agreed to provide us may be limited. For instance, some of our agreements with our tenants/operators do not require them to indemnify us for environmental liabilities arising before the tenant/operator took possession of the premises. Further, we cannot assure stockholders that any such tenant/operator would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. If we were deemed liable for any such environmental liabilities and were unable to seek recovery against our tenant/operator, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 34Table of ContentsFurthermore, we may invest in real estate, or mortgage loans secured by real estate, with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate. Even as a lender, if we take title to collateral with environmental problems or if other circumstances arise, we could be subject to environmental liability. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title.In the course of our business, we may take title to real estate and, if we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In such a circumstance, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, and investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases, at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our tenants’/operators’ insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our cash flow.Although we believe our property investments and properties collateralizing our CRE debt and securities investments are adequately covered by insurance, we could be wrong. Furthermore, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. We may decide that certain risks are not cost effective to insure and could determine to forgo certain insurance on a case-by-case basis. For example, insurance related to our healthcare portfolio and certain specific assets may be substantially more expensive than insurance for the rest of our portfolio. Any uninsured loss could result in both loss of cash flow from, and the asset value of, the affected property. In addition, the CRE debt investments secured by certain of our properties contain customary covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain property insurance in an amount equal to the replacement cost of the properties, which may increase the cost of obtaining the required insurance.Our joint venture partners could take actions that decrease the value of an investment to us and lower our overall return.We currently have, and may in the future, enter into joint ventures with third parties to make investments. We may also make investments in partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements or participations. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment, including, for example, the following risks:•that our co-venturer or partner in an investment could become insolvent or bankrupt;•that such co-venturer or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become in conflict with our business interests or goals; or•that such co-venturer or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives.Any of the above might subject us to liabilities and thus reduce our returns on our investment with that co-venturer or partner. In addition, disagreements or disputes between us and our co-venturer or partner could result in litigation, which could increase our expenses and potentially limit the time and effort our officers and directors are able to devote to our business.We may not succeed in realizing the anticipated benefits of our strategic partnerships and joint ventures, including with RXR Realty or James F. Flaherty III.The strategic partnership and joint venture with RXR Realty and Mr. Flaherty, including any additional partnerships or joint ventures we may seek to enter into in order to grow our business, may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, control and personnel that are not under our control.In December 2013, we entered into a strategic transaction with RXR Realty, a leading real estate operating and investment management company focused on high-quality real estate investments in the New York Tri-State area. The RXR Investment includes a combination of corporate debt, preferred equity and an approximate 30% equity interest in RXR Realty. As part of the investment, we also announced that we expect to co-sponsor a non-traded REIT with RXR Realty focused on commercial real estate in the New York Tri-State area. We may never, however, realize the expected benefits of the strategic partnership with, or our investment in, RXR Realty due to, among other things, RXR Realty’s failure to perform as anticipated, we may be unable to source and/or execute upon opportunities through RXR Realty in the New York Tri-State area in the quantity anticipated or at all, we may become involved in disputes with RXR Realty regarding our strategic initiatives or the 35Table of Contentsdevelopment or operations of RXR Realty’s current business, we may not be able to launch a co-sponsored non-traded REIT with RXR Realty within the time contemplated, or at all, or we may determine to make additional capital investments in RXR Realty so that it may continue its operations. Furthermore, upon completion of the proposed spin-off, we will pay NSAM an additional annual base management fee related to the RXR Investment of at least $10 million, regardless of the performance of the RXR Investment. Any of these or any other action that results in the strategic partnership failing to achieve its goals as anticipated could adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to otherwise realize any return on our investment in such partnership.In January 2014, we entered into a long-term strategic partnership with James F. Flaherty III, former Chief Executive Officer of HCP, Inc. (NYSE: HCP), focused on expanding our healthcare real estate business into a preeminent healthcare platform. In connection with the partnership, Mr. Flaherty will oversee and seek to grow our healthcare real estate portfolio and the portfolio of our healthcare focused non-traded REIT, NorthStar Healthcare as its Chief Executive Officer and President. We may never, however, realize the expected benefits of this joint venture with Mr. Flaherty due to, among other things, the economic and overall conditions of the healthcare real estate industry, Mr. Flaherty’s ability to source new healthcare real estate investments with the return we anticipate or at all or we may become involved in disputes with Mr. Flaherty regarding the joint venture’s investments. In addition, a portion of the incentive fees to which Mr. Flaherty is entitled are based on our existing healthcare real estate investments and are not contingent upon Mr. Flaherty’s performance regarding new healthcare real estate investments sourced by him. Such incentive fees may be substantial.We are subject to risks associated with owning residential land investments, including in connection with our LandCap joint venture.We are subject to risks associated with owning residential land. For example, in late 2007, we entered into a joint venture with Whitehall Street Global Real Estate Limited Partnership 2007, or Whitehall, to form LandCap Partners and LandCap LoanCo., which we collectively refer to as LandCap. LandCap was established to opportunistically invest in single-family residential land through land loans, lot option agreements and select land purchases. The joint venture is currently managed by a third-party management group which has extensive experience in the single family housing sector. These investments, like other residential land investments, are expected to generate very little current cash flow and to be held for several years prior to liquidation. We and Whitehall agreed to provide no additional new investment capital in the LandCap joint venture. The venture will continue to manage existing investments. We may determine to invest in other residential land ventures in the future and our investment could be significant, making our exposure to these types of assets more substantial. As of December 31, 2013, our carrying value in LandCap was $14 million.We have limited experience owning manufactured housing communities and our investment in this asset class may not be successful.As of December 31, 2013, $1.5 billion of our assets under management were invested in manufactured housing communities comprised of 119 manufactured housing communities totaling approximately 28,000 pad rental sites. We have limited experience owning manufactured housing communities and we are reliant, in substantial part, on the experience of a third-party operator to manage these assets on our behalf. Effectively managing these assets requires significant experience and there is no assurance that we or our third-party operator will be successful in maintaining or improving occupancy and otherwise preserving and increasing the value of these assets. Our investment in these assets may not generate the cash flow we anticipate or otherwise perform as expected. We could experience losses in these assets, which would negatively impact our operating performance and cash available for distribution, or CAD.We have in the past and expect to continue to make opportunistic investments that may involve asset classes and structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss.We have in the past and may in the future also determine to invest in residential real estate, manufactured and multifamily housing and other asset classes with which we have limited or no prior experience. When investing in asset classes with which we have limited or no prior experience, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts. We may also be unsuccessful in preserving value if conditions deteriorate and we may expose ourselves to unknown substantial risks. Furthermore, these assets could require additional management time and attention relative to assets with which we are more familiar. All of these factors increase our risk of loss.We have significant investments in joint ventures owning real estate private equity funds and there is no assurance these investments will achieve the returns expected upon initial execution of the respective investments. As of December 31, 2013, $874 million of our assets under management were invested in PE Investments. Our PE Investments may not achieve the anticipated returns we initially expected. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, the possibility that: (i) the agreed upon NAV does not necessarily reflect the fair value of the fund interests on such date and the current fair value could be materially different; (ii) the actual amount of future capital commitments underlying all of the fund interests that will be called and funded by us could vary materially from our 36Table of Contentsexpectations; and (iii) because, among other matters, the sponsors of the private equity funds, rather than us, will control the investments in those funds, we could lose some or all of their investment. Furthermore, certain of our PE Investments are co-invested with NorthStar Income, which increases the likelihood that we could have conflicts of interest with that company.There can be no assurance that we will enter into a definitive agreement to acquire a $1.05 billion healthcare real estate portfolio that is currently subject to a term sheet or that the proposed acquisition will be completed on the terms contemplated or at all or that we will be able to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition.On February 27, 2014, we announced that we have entered into a term sheet to acquire a $1.05 billion healthcare real estate portfolio comprised of over 8,500 beds across 43 senior housing facilities and 37 skilled nursing facilities, located primarily in Florida, Illinois, Oregon and Texas. There can be no assurance that we will enter into a definitive agreement or that this proposed acquisition will be completed on the terms contemplated, in accordance with the anticipated timing or at all. If we enter into a definitive agreement, our proposed acquisition of the $1.05 billion healthcare real estate portfolio will still be subject to a number of conditions to closing. There can be no assurance that these conditions to closing will be satisfied. Furthermore, even if we are able to consummate the acquisition of this portfolio, there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits to us of such transaction, including that it will be accretive to our earnings. We invest in CRE securities, including CMBS and other subordinate securities, which entail certain heightened risks. We invest in a variety of CRE securities that are subordinate securities subject to the first risk of loss if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans. CMBS entitle the holders thereof to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial or multifamily mortgage loans. Consequently, CMBS and other CRE securities will be adversely affected by payment defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying mortgage loans, which increase during times of economic stress and uncertainty. Furthermore, if the rental and leasing markets deteriorate, including by decreasing occupancy rates and decreasing market rental rates, it could reduce cash flow from the mortgage loan pools underlying our CMBS investments. The market for CRE securities is dependent upon liquidity for refinancing and may be negatively impacted by a slowdown in new issuance. Additionally, CRE securities such as CMBS may be subject to particular risks, including lack of standardized terms and payment of all or substantially all of the principal only at maturity rather than regular amortization of principal. Additional risks may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Commercial property values and net operating income are subject to volatility, which may result in net operating income becoming insufficient to cover debt service on the related loan. The repayment of loans secured by income-producing properties is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project rather than upon the liquidation value of the underlying collateral. Furthermore, the net operating income from and value of any commercial property are subject to various risks. The exercise of remedies and successful realization of liquidation proceeds relating to CRE securities may be highly dependent upon the performance of the servicer or special servicer. Expenses of enforcing the underlying mortgage loan (including litigation expenses) and expenses of protecting the properties securing the loan may be substantial. Consequently, in the event of a default or loss on one or more loans contained in a securitization, we may not recover a portion or all of our investment.The CRE securities, including CMBS, in which we invest are subject to the risks of the CRE debt capital markets as a whole and risks of the securitization process.The value of CRE securities may change due to shifts in the market’s perception of issuers and regulatory or tax changes adversely affecting the CRE debt market as a whole. Due to our investment in subordinate CRE securities, we are also subject to several risks created through the securitization financing transaction process. Subordinate CMBS, for example, are paid only to the extent that there are funds available to make payments. To the extent the collateral pool includes delinquent loans, there is a risk that the payment on our subordinate CMBS will not be fully paid, if paid at all. While all of our CRE securities investments present credit risk, our subordinate CRE securities are also subject to greater credit risk than those CRE securities that are senior and more highly rated.Interest shortfalls on our CRE securities could have an adverse impact on the cash flow in our N-Star securities CDOs.Our CRE securities are subject to the risk of interest payment shortfalls that may arise from underlying mortgage loan defaults, appraisal reductions, special servicer work out fees and realized losses on liquidation of collateral of which the CRE securities took title to. As a result of the credit crisis and resulting negative effects on the CRE market, certain of the CRE securities underlying our CDOs have experienced interest payment shortfalls. We attempted to mitigate these losses by purchasing CRE securities with sufficient credit enhancement to avoid such shortfalls. However, there can be no assurance that such interest shortfalls will not continue to persist or increase in the future. 37Table of ContentsWe may not control the special servicing of the mortgage loans or other debt underlying the CRE securities in which we invest and, in such cases, the special servicer may take actions that could adversely affect our interest.Overall control over the special servicing of the mortgage loans or other debt underlying the CRE securities in which we invest may be held by a directing certificate holder which is typically appointed by the holders of the most subordinate class of such CRE securities then outstanding. We ordinarily do not have the right to appoint the directing certificate holder. In connection with the servicing of the specially serviced loans, the related special servicer may, at the direction of the directing certificate holder, take actions that could adversely affect our interest.With respect to certain mortgage loans and other debt included in the CRE securities in which we invest, the collateral that secures the mortgage loan or other debt underlying the CRE securities may also secure one or more related mortgage loans or other debt that are not in the securitization pool, which may conflict with our interest.Certain mortgage loans or other debt included in the CRE securities in which we invest may be part of a loan combination or split loan structure that includes one or more additional cross-collateralized mortgage loans (senior, subordinate or pari passu and not included in the securitization pool) that are secured by the same mortgage instrument(s) encumbering the same mortgaged property or properties, as applicable, as is the subject mortgage loan. Pursuant to one or more co-lender or similar agreements, a holder, or a group of holders, of a mortgage loan in a subject loan combination or split loan structure may be granted various rights and powers that affect the mortgage loan in that loan combination or split loan structure, including: (i) cure rights; (ii) a purchase option; (iii) the right to advise, direct or consult with the applicable servicer regarding various servicing matters affecting that loan combination; or (iv) the right to replace the directing certificate holder (without cause). These rights could adversely affect our position.The CRE securities markets were severely impacted by the credit crisis, which had a negative impact on the CRE securities we own. Because the CRE securities markets were virtually closed and other participants in the CRE lending market drastically curtailed lending activity during the credit crisis, real estate owners had difficulty refinancing their assets. Property values also decreased during these years because of scarcity of financing, which, if available, had terms generally at much lower leverage and higher cost than available in prior years. The U.S. and global markets remain uncertain as the result of current economic and political conditions which may impact CRE values. These conditions, together with widespread downgrades of CRE securities issued prior to 2010 by the rating agencies, higher risk premiums required by investors and uncertainty surrounding CRE generally, have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on such CRE securities and have significantly decreased their value when compared to the original purchase price, other than, for the most part, CRE securities we purchased beginning in 2010.Credit ratings assigned to our investments are subject to ongoing surveillance and we cannot assure stockholders that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded.Substantially all of our CRE securities have explicit credit ratings assigned by at least one of the major rating agencies. Any credit ratings on our CRE securities, or tenants occupying our CRE investments, will be subject to ongoing surveillance by credit rating agencies. We cannot assure stockholders that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. The rating agencies have changed their ratings methodologies for all securitized asset classes, including CRE. Their reviews have resulted in, and may continue to result in, large amounts of ratings downgrade actions for CRE securities issued prior to 2010, negatively impacting fair value of such CRE securities and in many cases negatively impacting our N-Star securities CDOs. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating, reduce, withdraw or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio which could result in losses upon disposition or the failure of third parties to satisfy their debt service obligations to us. Additionally, this may negatively impact our ability to comply with the overcollateralization, or OC, test under our N-Star securities CDOs which could redirect cash distributions to the senior bondholders that would have otherwise been distributed to our equity interests, which could have an adverse affect on our financial condition. Market conditions may cause uncertainty in valuing our CRE securities. Periods of market volatility and lack of liquidity may make the valuation process pertaining to certain of our assets difficult, particularly CRE securities issued prior to 2010 for which there was limited market activity. Historically, our estimate of the value of these investments was primarily based on active issuances and the secondary trading market of such securities as compiled and reported by independent pricing agencies. Although the current market environment has improved with new CMBS issuance and increased secondary trading, there continues to be uncertainty in the CMBS market. Our estimate of fair value, which is based on the notion of orderly market transactions, requires significant judgment and consideration of other indicators of value such as current interest rates, relevant market indices, broker quotes, expected cash flow and other relevant market and security-specific data as appropriate. Our estimates could be wrong and there is a heightened risk of this during 38Table of Contentschallenging and volatile market environments. The amount that we could obtain if we were forced to liquidate our CRE securities investments into the current market could be materially different than management’s best estimate of fair value.Our investments in CRE securities, which may include preferred and common equity, will be subject to the specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and may involve greater risk of loss than secured debt financings.Our investments in CRE securities, which may include preferred and common equity, will involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Issuers that are REITs and other real estate companies are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate and real estate-related investments discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Issuers that are finance companies are subject to the inherent risks associated with structured financing investments also discussed in this report. Furthermore, securities, including preferred and common equity, may involve greater risk of loss than secured financings due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. As a result, investments in CRE securities, including preferred and common equity, are subject to risks of: (i) limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; (ii) substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; (iii) subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; (iv) the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call or redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; (v) the possibility that earnings of the issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations; and (vi) the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding securities, including preferred and common equity, and the ability of the issuers thereof to make principal, interest and distribution payments to us.Declines in the fair value of our investments may adversely affect our periodically reported results of operations and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to stockholders.Our securities investments will be classified for accounting purposes as “available-for-sale.” These securities will be carried at estimated fair value and temporary changes in the fair value of those assets will generally be directly charged or credited to equity with no impact in our statements of operations. If we determine that a decline in the estimated fair value of an available-for-sale security falls below its amortized value and is not temporary, we will recognize the appropriate loss on that security in our statements of operations, which will reduce our earnings in the period recognized.A decline in the fair value of our assets may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the fair value of those assets. If the fair value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the asset. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, our lenders may refuse to continue to lend to us or reduce the amounts they are willing to lend to us. Additionally, we may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to stockholders.Further, lenders may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash reserves or to set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position, which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on equity. In the event that we are unable to meet these contractual obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.The fair value of our investments may decline for a number of reasons, such as changes in prevailing market rates, increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk, widening of credit spreads and downgrades of ratings of the securities by ratings agencies.We invest in CDO notes and such investments involve significant risks. We repurchased N-Star CDO bonds originally issued to third parties at discounts to par and may invest in other third-party CDO notes. CDOs are multiple class securities secured by pools of assets, such as CMBS, mortgage loans, subordinate mortgage and mezzanine loans and REIT debt. Like typical securitization structures, in a CDO, the assets are pledged to a trustee for the benefit of the holders of the CDO bonds. Like CMBS, CDO notes are affected by payments, defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying loans or securities. To the extent we retain or invest the equity interests of a CDO, we are entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the senior securities and its expenses. We own the equity interests in all of our N-Star CDO financing transactions whether or not we consolidate these transactions on our balance sheet. There may be little or no income or principal available to the holders of CDO equity interests if defaults or losses on the underlying collateral exceed a certain amount. In that event, the value of our investment in any equity interest of a CDO could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity interests of CDOs are illiquid and often must be held by a REIT and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity interests will generally have greater fluctuations than the value of the underlying collateral. 39Table of ContentsOur investments in unsecured REIT debt are subject to risks relating to the particular REIT issuer and to the general risks of investing in senior unsecured CRE securities, which may result in a high risk of loss.In addition to general economic and market risks, our investments in unsecured REIT debt involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. REITs generally are required to substantially invest in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments.Our investments in unsecured REIT debt and other senior unsecured debt are also subject to the risks described above with respect to CRE debt and securities investments and similar risks, including risks of delinquency and taking title to collateral, the dependence upon the successful operation of, and income from, real property, risks generally related to interests in real property, and risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property.REIT debt is generally unsecured and may also be subordinate to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in CRE securities that are rated below investment grade or that are not rated at all. As a result, investments in unsecured REIT debt are also subject to risks of:• limited liquidity in the secondary trading market;• substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates and real estate values;• subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the REIT;•the operation of mandatory sinking fund or redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets;• the possibility that earnings of the REIT may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations;•the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates, declining real estate values and economic downturns;• rating agency credit rating downgrades negatively impacting value of securities; and•covenants not being sufficient to protect investors from the adverse credit impact of merger and acquisition transactions and increased leverage of the REIT.These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding unsecured REIT debt we hold and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make distributions. Many, if not all of these risks, may be present even if the REIT debt is secured.Some of our investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by us and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our investments are recorded at fair value but will have limited liquidity or will not be publicly traded. The fair value of these investments that have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We will estimate the fair value of these investments on a quarterly basis. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on numerous estimates and assumptions, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a readily available market for these securities existed. If our determination regarding the fair value of these investments are materially different than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Risks Related to Our Financing StrategyWe may not be able to access financing sources on attractive terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We require outside capital to fund and grow our business. Our business may be adversely affected by disruptions in the debt and equity capital markets and institutional lending market, including the lack of access to capital or prohibitively high costs of obtaining or replacing capital. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the debt and equity capital markets, including issuances, directly or indirectly, of common equity, preferred equity, trust preferred securities and exchangeable senior notes, as well as notes in securitization financing transactions. Access to the capital markets and other sources of liquidity was severely disrupted during the credit crisis covering 2007 to 2010 followed by a deep recession. Despite recent improvements, the markets could suffer another severe downturn and another liquidity crisis could emerge. Based on the current conditions, we do not know whether any sources of capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain sufficient debt and equity capital on acceptable terms, our business and our ability to operate could be severely impacted. For information about our available sources of funds, refer to Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion 40Table of Contentsand Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to our consolidated financial statements located in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our portfolio is highly leveraged, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution.We leverage our portfolio generally through the use of mortgage notes, credit facilities, securitization financing transactions and other borrowings. The type and percentage of financing varies depending on our ability to obtain credit and the lender’s estimate of the stability of the portfolio’s cash flow. However, we do not restrict the amount of borrowings that we may incur. High leverage can, particularly during difficult economic times, increase our risk of loss and harm our liquidity. Moreover, we may have to incur more recourse borrowings, including recourse borrowings that are subject to mark-to-market risk, in order to obtain financing for our business. We may not successfully align the maturities of our liabilities with the maturities on our assets, which could harm our operating results and financial condition.Our general financing strategy is focused on the use of “match-funded” structures. This means that we seek to align the maturities of our liabilities with the maturities on our assets in order to manage the risks of being forced to refinance our liabilities prior to the maturities of our assets. In addition, we plan to match interest rates on our assets with like-kind borrowings, so fixed-rate investments are financed with fixed-rate borrowings and floating-rate assets are financed with floating-rate borrowings, directly or indirectly through the use of interest rate swaps, caps and other financial instruments or through a combination of these strategies. We may fail to appropriately employ match-funded structures on favorable terms, or at all. We may also determine not to pursue a match-funded strategy with respect to a portion of our financings for a variety of reasons. If we fail to appropriately employ match-funded strategies or determine not to pursue such a strategy, our exposure to interest rate volatility and exposure to matching liabilities prior to the maturity of the corresponding asset may increase substantially which could harm our operating results, liquidity and financial condition.Our performance can be negatively affected by fluctuations in interest rates and shifts in the yield curve may cause losses. Our financial performance is influenced by changes in interest rates, in particular, as such changes may affect our CRE securities, floating-rate borrowings and CRE debt to the extent such debt does not float as a result of floors or otherwise. Changes in interest rates, including changes in expected interest rates or “yield curves,” affect our business in a number of ways. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing borrowings and hedges. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect, among other things, our ability to acquire CRE securities, originate or acquire CRE debt at attractive prices and enter into hedging transactions. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate changes may also impact our net book value as our CRE securities and hedge derivatives are marked to market each quarter. Generally, as interest rates increase, the value of our fixed rate securities decreases, which will decrease the book value of our equity. Furthermore, shifts in the U.S. Treasury yield curve reflecting an increase in interest rates would also affect the yield required on our CRE securities and therefore their value. For example, increasing interest rates would reduce the value of the fixed rate assets we hold at the time because the higher yields required by increased interest rates result in lower market prices on existing fixed rate assets in order to adjust the yield upward to meet the market, and vice versa. This would have similar effects on our CRE securities portfolio and our financial position and operations to a change in interest rates generally. Our interest rate risk sensitive assets, liabilities and related derivative positions are generally held for non-trading purposes. As of December 31, 2013, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in one-month LIBOR applied to our floating-rate assets and liabilities (including derivatives) would result in an increase in net interest income of approximately $2 million annually.41Table of ContentsIn a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate assets or LIBOR capped floating rate assets would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability.Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets, reduced by any credit losses and financing costs. Income from our assets may respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may influence our net income. Increases in these rates may decrease our net income. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding the income from our assets could result in losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing borrowings during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on those investments, which would adversely affect our profitability.Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, limit our gains or result in losses, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders.We may enter into interest rate swap, cap or floor agreements or pursue other interest rate hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on interest rate levels, the type of investments held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:•interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;•available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;•the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset;•our hedging opportunities may be limited by the treatment of income from hedging transactions under the rules determining REIT qualification;•the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;•the counterparties with which we trade may cease making markets and quoting prices in such instruments, which may render us unable to enter into an offsetting transaction with respect to an open position; •the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and•we may purchase a hedge that turns out not to be necessary, i.e., a hedge that is out of the money.Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not be able to establish a perfect correlation between hedging instruments and the investments being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss.Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearinghouse or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs.The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument lengthens and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no regulatory or statutory requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure stockholders that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.42Table of ContentsRefer to the below risk factor “The direct or indirect effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010 for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, may have an adverse effect on our interest rate hedging activities” for a discussion of how the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, may affect the use of hedging instruments.We use short-term borrowings to finance our investments and we may need to use such borrowings for extended periods of time to the extent we are unable to access long-term financing. This may expose us to increased risks associated with decreases in the fair value of the underlying collateral which could cause an adverse impact on our results of operations.While we expect to seek non-recourse, non-mark-to-market, long-term financing through securitization financing transactions or other structures, such financing may be unavailable to us on favorable terms or at all. Consequently, we may be dependent on short-term financing arrangements that are not matched in duration to our financial assets. Short-term borrowing through repurchase arrangements, credit facilities and other types of borrowings may put our assets and financial condition at risk. Any such short-term financing may also be recourse to us, which will increase the risk of our investments. We currently have two credit facilities that provide for an aggregate of up to $240 million to finance loan originations. We may obtain additional facilities and increase our lines of credit on existing facilities in the future. Our financing structures may economically resemble short-term, floating-rate financing and usually require the maintenance of specific loan-to-collateral value ratios and other covenants. In addition, the value of assets underlying any such short-term financing may be marked-to-market periodically by the lender, including on a daily basis. If the fair value of the assets subject to such financing arrangements decline, we may be required to provide additional collateral or make cash payments to maintain the loan-to-collateral value ratio. If we are unable to provide such collateral or cash repayments, we may lose our economic interest in the underlying assets. Further, such borrowings may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash reserves or to set aside unleveraged assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. These facilities may be restricted to financing certain types of assets, such as first mortgage loans, which could impact our asset allocation. Our repurchase credit facilities provide for an unrestricted cash covenant of $20 million and this amount may increase in the future. In addition, such short-term borrowing facilities may limit the length of time that any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our income generated on such assets. In the event that we are unable to meet the collateral obligations for our short-term financing arrangements, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.We use leverage in connection with our investments, which increases the risk of loss associated with our investments.We finance the origination and acquisition of a portion of our investments with credit facilities, mortgage notes, securitization financing transactions and other term borrowings, which may include repurchase agreements. Although the use of leverage may enhance returns and increase the number of investments that we can make, it may also substantially increase the risk of loss. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the financing markets that are beyond our control, including liquidity and credit spreads. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or, with respect to our debt and other investments, on terms that parallel the maturities of the debt originated or acquired, if we are able to obtain additional financing at all. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase agreements may not accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more restrictive recourse borrowings and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flow, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to stockholders, for our operations and for future business opportunities. If alternative financing is not available on favorable terms, or at all, we may have to liquidate assets at unfavorable prices to pay off such financing. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the earnings that we can derive from the assets we originate or acquire.Short-term borrowing through repurchase agreements, credit facilities and other borrowings may put our assets and financial condition at risk. Repurchase agreements economically resemble short-term, floating-rate financing and usually require the maintenance of specific loan-to-collateral value ratios. If the fair value of the assets subject to a repurchase agreement decline, we may be required to provide additional collateral or make cash payments to maintain the loan-to-collateral value ratio. If we are unable to provide such collateral or cash repayments, we may lose our economic interest in the underlying assets. Further, such borrowings may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash reserves or to set aside unleveraged assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. In addition, such short-term borrowing facilities may limit the length of time that any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.Credit facilities may contain recourse obligations and any default could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial condition.We finance certain of our investments through the use of repurchase agreements. Obligations under certain repurchase agreements could be recourse obligations to us and any default thereunder could result in margin calls and further force a 43Table of Contentsliquidation of assets at times when the pricing may be unfavorable to us. Our default under such repurchase agreements could negatively impact our business, liquidity and financial condition.We are subject to risks, such as declining real estate values and operating performance, associated with future advance or capital expenditure obligations. Our debt investments may require us to advance future funds. We may also need to fund capital expenditures and other significant expenses for our real estate property investments. Future funding obligations subject us to significant risks such as that the property may have declined in value, projects to be completed with the additional funds may have cost overruns and the borrower and tenant/operator may be unable to generate enough cash flow and execute its business plan, or sell or refinance the property, in order to repay our debt due. We could determine that we need to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to maximize the value of our investment even though there is no assurance additional funding would be the best course of action. Further, future funding obligations require us to maintain higher liquidity than we might otherwise maintain and this could reduce the overall return on our investments and we could experience losses. We enter into a variety of arrangements to finance our investments, which may require us to provide additional collateral and significantly impact our liquidity position.We use a variety of structures to finance our investments. To the extent these financing arrangements contain mark-to-market provisions, if the market value of the investments pledged by us declines in value due to credit quality deterioration, we may be required by our lenders to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of our borrowings. In a weakening economic environment, we would generally expect credit quality and the value of the investment that serves as collateral for our financing arrangements to decline, and in such a scenario, it is likely that the terms of our financing arrangements would require partial repayment from us, which could be substantial. Posting additional collateral to support our financing arrangements could significantly reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, our lenders can accelerate our borrowings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional borrowings. Financing arrangements that we may enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further incur borrowings and restrict distributions to stockholders. Credit facilities we enter into contain financial covenants, including a minimum unrestricted cash covenant. These or other limitations would decrease our operating flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating objectives, including making distributions to stockholders.We are subject to risks associated with obtaining mortgage financing on our real estate, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.As of December 31, 2013, our real estate portfolio had $2.1 billion of total mortgage financing. Financing for new real estate investments and our maturing borrowings may be provided by credit facilities, private or public debt offerings, assumption of secured borrowings, mortgage financing on a portion of our owned portfolio or through joint ventures. We are subject to risks normally associated with financing, including the risks that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal, that may be unable to refinance existing borrowings or support collateral obligations and that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing borrowing. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions or the sale of the underlying property, our cash flow may not be sufficient in all years to make distributions to stockholders and to repay all maturing borrowings. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, the interest expense relating to that refinanced borrowing would increase, which could reduce our profitability and the amount of distributions we are able to pay to stockholders. Moreover, additional financing increases the amount of our leverage, which could negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or make us more vulnerable in a downturn in our results of operations or the economy generally.We retain the equity interests in our N-Star CDOs, which entails certain risks, including that these interests are the most junior interests and receive distributions only if the CDO generates enough cash flow to pay all of the other senior CDO bonds.Our equity interests in our consolidated and deconsolidated CDOs represent leveraged investments in the underlying assets. The senior CDO bonds participate in the cash flow in CDOs and distributions on equity interests are generally made only after payment of interest on, and principal of, the senior CDO bonds. Although generally there is no interest or principal due on the equity notes, distributions may be made to us as holders of the equity interests on each payment date only after all of the other required payments are made. There will be little or no cash flow available to our equity interests if there are defaults by the obligors under the underlying collateral and those defaults exceed a certain amount. In that event, the value of our equity 44Table of Contentsinterests in our CDOs could decrease quickly and substantially. There can be no assurance that after making required payments on the senior CDO bonds there will be any remaining funds available to pay us. Accordingly, our equity interests may not be paid in full and we may be subject to a loss of all or part of our interest in the event that payments are not made on the underlying assets or losses are incurred with respect to the underlying assets, which could have a material adverse effect on us. For information about our interest in N-Star CDOs, refer to Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to our consolidated financial statements located in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Schedules” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our CDO bonds payable have certain coverage tests that are required to be met in order for payments to be made to our equity interests in the N-Star CDOs. Failing coverage tests could significantly impact our cash flow and overall liquidity position.Our CDO bonds payable generally require that the underlying collateral and cash flow generated by the collateral be in excess of ratios stipulated in the related indentures. These OC, and interest coverage, or IC, tests are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying collateral may be used to pay principal of, and interest on, our equity interests in the N-Star CDOs. Our N-Star CDOs are collateralized by CRE debt and securities, with a majority of our equity invested in our CRE debt CDOs. Uncured defaults on CRE debt and rating agency downgrades on CMBS are the primary causes for decreases in the OC and IC tests. In the event these tests are not met, cash flow that would normally be distributed to us would be used to amortize the senior CDO bonds until the CDO is back in compliance with the tests. Even if we have control because we may have originated a loan and even when we may be able to appoint ourselves as special servicer in connection with a CMBS investment, we may be unable to prevent adverse conditions that could negatively affect our cash flow and overall liquidity position. As of December 31, 2013, all of our CRE debt N-Star CDOs were in compliance with their OC and IC tests. Three of our remaining N-Star securities CDOs (I, III, and V) were out of compliance with their respective OC tests and we expect that complying with OC and IC tests will continue to be difficult. Challenging economic conditions, deterioration of the CRE market and credit rating downgrades of real estate securities would make complying with OC and IC tests more difficult or even impossible in the future. Our failure to satisfy the coverage tests could adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and cash flow. The reinvestment period for all of our N-Star CDOs have expired.During the reinvestment period of our N-Star CDOs, we were permitted to reinvest principal payments on the underlying assets into qualifying replacement collateral. Because we are unable to reinvest principal in these CDOs after the reinvestment period ends, principal repayments on investments are redirected to pay down the senior bonds, which delevers the CDO and negatively impacts our cash flow. Furthermore, following the end of the reinvestment period of the N-Star CDOs, our ability to manage and maintain the OC and IC ratios is limited as we are unable to reinvest principal in the CDOs. This may adversely affect our cash flow related to our interests in these N-Star CDOs, regardless of whether such CDOs are consolidated or have since been deconsolidated from our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion of our legacy CDO business.A payment default on our N-Star CDO bonds could have a compounding effect on other N-Star CDOs.Certain of our N-Star CDOs have invested in CDO bonds issued by other N-Star CDOs that we sponsored and/or acquired. Such investments expose us to increased risk, as defaults in any particular CDO would also affect another CDO that owns bonds in the CDO that experiences defaults. Defaults across certain of our N-Star CDOs could, therefore, have a material impact on the cash flow of other N-Star CDOs that we own that may not have otherwise experienced such an impact.We may finance assets that we hold on our balance sheet within our N-Star CDOs and such financings could expose us to additional risk.We financed assets that we hold on our balance sheet within our N-Star CDOs. For example, we financed a $75 million preferred equity interest and a $121 million mortgage loan in our healthcare portfolio within certain of our N-Star CDOs that are no longer consolidated. The aggregate interest expense on these financings for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $12 million, of which $10 million was eliminated in consolidation prior to the deconsolidation. While we believe such transactions are entered into on market terms, we could be subjected to additional scrutiny as we controlled such CDOs and the assets being financed by the CDOs. If it was ever determined that we did not satisfy our obligations to a CDO in connection with such a financing, we could be subject to damages and costs that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.45Table of ContentsThe documentation governing our N-Star CDOs is complex and contains certain ambiguities that are subject to interpretation. Each of our N-Star CDOs is governed by an indenture, collateral management agreement and other documentation. The documents are complex and collectively describe the conditions upon which we can sell assets and reinvest principal proceeds and set forth covenants and other provisions to which we and the CDOs are subject. In certain circumstances, the performance of the underlying CDO collateral has raised ambiguities in our CDO documentation. Although we have as a general matter been able to reach agreement with our CDO trustees as to how the CDO documentation should be interpreted, it is possible that we and our CDO trustees may not be able to reach agreement on important CDO documentation provisions in the future. To the extent we and our CDO trustees are unable to resolve any differences in the interpretation of CDO documentation, or if third parties, such as bondholders or other parties, do not agree with conclusions that are reached by us and/or the CDO trustees, our ability to manage the underlying collateral, and thus maintain the OC and IC ratios and otherwise optimize the performance of our CDOs, may be adversely affected. We could take a position, inadvertently or otherwise, that a court ultimately determines constitutes a breach of the underlying agreements and the results of such a determination could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition.We may be unable to complete additional securitization financing transactions due to, among other things, a decrease in liquidity in the CRE market.For CRE debt and securities investments originated or acquired prior to 2010, we accessed the securitization markets to obtain non-recourse, non-mark to market, permanent financing which were structured as CDOs. Issuing long-term financing, such as CDO bonds, has historically been an important part of our overall business plan. In November 2012 and in August 2013, we and on behalf of NorthStar Income, entered into two securitization financing transactions, however, we may be unable to complete similar transactions in the future due to several factors, including decreased liquidity in the CRE market. If we are unsuccessful in accessing this market, we may be exposed to less favorable financing terms, if any, which could adversely affect our business. If we breach representations or warranties that we made in our Securitization Financing Transactions, or if either we or NorthStar Income suffer a loss in our retained interests in that transaction, our financial condition could be harmed.In November 2012, we closed a Securitization Financing Transaction collateralized by $351 million of directly originated CRE debt by us and NorthStar Income. We, through our subsidiaries, contributed five CRE debt investments with a $152 million aggregate principal balance to the Securitization Financing Transaction and NorthStar Income, through its subsidiaries, contributed nine CRE debt investments with a $199 million aggregate principal balance. This transaction involved the issuance and sale of a total of $228 million of investment-grade bonds. Affiliates of ours and NorthStar Income retained all of the below investment-grade bonds with an affiliate of ours retaining $54 million of a total of $124 million, representing our equity interest in the CRE debt we contributed to the Securitization Financing Transaction. This is the first such financing transaction we had completed in several years.In connection with the Securitization Financing Transaction, subsidiaries of ours made certain customary representations, warranties and covenants. If there is a breach of those representations and warranties or a defect in the documentation of any of the contributed assets, which breach or defect materially and adversely affects the value of the subject contributed asset, the value of the related mortgaged property or the interests of the trustee therein, then a subsidiary of ours, NRFC Sub-REIT Corp., or Sub-REIT, will be required to either cure the breach, repurchase the affected contributed asset from the issuing entity, replace the affected contributed asset with another asset or make a loss of value payment, as the case may be. Any such loss could be material and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Further in connection with this transaction, since we and NorthStar Income both contributed assets into a single securitization, we entered into a partnership agreement with NorthStar Income that provides that both parties will receive the economic benefit and bear the economic risk associated with the assets each contributed into the securitization. In both cases, a portion of our and NorthStar Income’s respective retained interests will be subordinate to interests of the senior bondholders. In the event that we or NorthStar Income suffers a complete loss of a portion of the respective retained interests, any additional losses would be borne by the remaining retained interests held by us or NorthStar Income, as the case may be, prior to the senior bondholders. We may enter into similar transactions in the future and those transactions could likely entail similar and other substantial risks.Our exchangeable senior notes and our repurchase credit facilities are recourse obligations to us.As of December 31, 2013, $544 million of our exchangeable senior notes were outstanding, of which $13 million, $173 million, $13 million and $345 million we may be required to repurchase in June 2014, March 2016, June 2019 and June 2023, respectively. These amounts are full recourse obligations of our company. If we are not able to extend, refinance or repurchase these borrowings, we may not have the ability to repay these amounts when they come due. Our inability to repay any of our exchangeable senior notes could cause the acceleration of our borrowings, which would have a material adverse effect on our 46Table of Contentsbusiness. In 2014 through February 26, 2014, we exchanged an aggregate $147 million principal amount of exchangeable senior notes and settled all such exchanges in shares of our common stock.We have two credit facilities that provide for an aggregate of up to $240 million to finance loan originations. We may enter into additional facilities in the future and increase available lines under our current facilities. In connection with our existing credit facilities, we executed guaranty agreements with our lenders pursuant to which we guaranteed the obligations of the borrowers. Certain events of default under the credit facilities could cause us to become liable to repay the borrowings under the repurchase credit facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions.The indenture agreements governing our exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of borrowings under other agreements. If a cross-default occurred, we may not be able to pay our liabilities or access capital from external sources in order to refinance our borrowings. If some or all of our borrowings default and it causes a default under other borrowings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.The holders of our exchangeable senior notes may elect to exchange those notes prior to maturity and we may be required to use common stock, cash or both to satisfy our exchange obligations.Our exchangeable senior notes may be exchanged at any time prior to maturity at the option of the holder in accordance with the terms of the applicable indenture. In December 2013, we made a revocable election to satisfy our exchange obligations with shares of our common stock for the principal amount of the notes, as determined in accordance with the applicable indenture. We may change our election at any time in accordance with the terms of the applicable indentures and elect to satisfy all exchanges with a combination of cash and common stock, rather than only common stock. Moreover, since the announcement of our proposed spin-off of our asset management business through February 26, 2014, we exchanged an aggregate of $215 million principal amount of exchangeable senior notes and settled all such exchanges in shares of our common stock. These exchanges, as well as any additional exchanges we may effect in the future through settlement with shares of our common stock, will exacerbate the dilutive effects to stockholders, including with respect to our asset management business. If we determine to use only cash to exchange our notes rather than stock, our liquidity could be negatively impacted. If holders of the notes determine to exchange their notes prior to maturity, we could be required to use common stock to exchange our notes, which could cause our existing stockholders to suffer significant dilution. If the price of our common stock continues to rise and our distributions continue to increase, the economic incentive to exchange our notes will likely increase. We may be unable to obtain financing required to originate or acquire investments as contemplated in our business plan, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular origination or acquisition and harm our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We expect to fund a portion of our investments with financing. We cannot assure stockholders that financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to satisfy the conditions precedent required to use our credit facilities, which could reduce the number, or alter the type, of investments that we would make otherwise. This may reduce our income. Challenges in the credit and financial markets have reduced the availability of financing. To the extent that financing proves to be unavailable when needed, we may be compelled to modify our investment strategy to optimize the performance of our portfolio. Any failure to obtain financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business and harm our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Risks Related to Our Asset Management BusinessThe organization and management of NorthStar Income, NorthStar Healthcare and NorthStar Income II and any future companies we may sponsor and manage may create conflicts of interest.We currently sponsor and, through majority-owned subsidiaries, are the advisor of NorthStar Income, NorthStar Healthcare and NorthStar Income II. Our Sponsored Companies, along with any new future sponsored companies or similar type entities we may manage, will acquire assets consistent with their business objectives and that are allocated to them in accordance with our investment allocation policy, which we adopted to ensure that investments are allocated fairly and appropriately among us and our Sponsored Companies. Our investment strategy may be very similar to that of our Sponsored Companies, and therefore many investment opportunities that are suitable for us may also be suitable for our Sponsored Companies, resulting in potential conflicts of interest, including between investors in these Sponsored Companies and stockholders, and although we have adopted an investment allocation policy to reduce the conflicts of interest between us and our Sponsored Companies, there is no assurance that we will be successful in eliminating the conflicts arising from the allocation of investment opportunities. When determining the entity for which an investment opportunity would be the most suitable, the factors that our investment professionals may consider include, among other factors, the following:47Table of Contents•investment objectives, strategy and criteria;•cash requirements;•effect of the investment on the diversification of the portfolio, including by geography, size of investment, type of investment and risk of investment;•leverage policy and the availability of financing for the investment by each entity;•anticipated cash flow of the asset to be acquired;•income tax effects of the purchase;•the size of the investment;•the amount of funds available;•cost of capital;•risk return profiles;•targeted distribution rates;•anticipated future pipeline of suitable investments;•the expected holding period of the investment and the remaining term of the Sponsored Company, if applicable; and•affiliate and/or related party considerations.If, after consideration of the relevant factors, we determine that an investment is equally suitable for us and one of our Sponsored Companies, the investment will be allocated among each of the applicable NorthStar entities, including us, on a rotating basis. If, after an investment has been allocated to us or another Sponsored Company, a subsequent event or development, such as delays in structuring or closing on the investment, makes it, in the opinion of our investment professionals, more appropriate for another NorthStar entity to fund the investment, we may determine to place the investment with the more appropriate entity while still giving credit to the original allocation. In certain situations, we may determine to allow more than one investment vehicle, including us, to co-invest in a particular investment.There is no assurance this policy will remain in place during the entire period we are seeking investment opportunities. In addition, we may sponsor additional investment vehicles in the future and, in connection with the creation of such investment vehicles, may revise these allocation procedures. The result of a revision to the allocation procedures may, among other things, be to increase the number of parties who have the right to participate in investment opportunities sourced by us, thereby reducing the number of investment opportunities available to us.In addition, under this policy, our investment professionals may consider the investment objectives and anticipated future pipeline of future investments of the investment vehicles that we sponsor. We may choose, for a variety of reasons, to source investment opportunities in the healthcare industry to NorthStar Healthcare rather than to us. The decision of how any potential investment should be allocated among us and one of our Sponsored Companies for which such investment may be suitable may, in many cases, be a matter of subjective judgment which will be made by us. We earn management and other fees for our services to our Sponsored Companies. Our executives and other real estate and debt finance professionals may face conflicts of interest in allocating their time to us versus our Sponsored Companies. Although as a company we will seek to make these decisions in a manner that we believe is fair and consistent with the operative legal documents governing these investment vehicles, the transfer or allocation of these assets may give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business and our ability to attract investors for future vehicles.Our organization and management of our Sponsored Companies could distract our management and have a negative effect on our business. The organization and management of our Sponsored Companies could divert our management team’s attention from our existing business to form and manage the operations and personnel of our Sponsored Companies and implement the business initiatives. Our management team could be required to spend significant time and financial resources on our Sponsored Companies, which could distract and prevent them from furthering our core business activities, regardless of the outcome of our Sponsored Companies. Consequently, this could have a negative effect on our business.48Table of ContentsOur ability to raise capital and attract investors in our Sponsored Companies is critical to their success and consequently our ability to grow our asset management business.Our Sponsored Companies depend upon our ability to attract purchasers of equity interests, which is highly dependent upon the efforts of the motivated sales force of our subsidiary, NorthStar Securities. NorthStar Securities is a FINRA member wholesale broker-dealer that is registered in the various jurisdictions in which our Sponsored Companies will do business. Our ability to grow our Sponsored Companies will be dependent on our ability to retain and motivate our sales force and other key personnel and to strategically recruit, retain and motivate new talent. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit, retain and motivate the required personnel as the market for qualified professionals is extremely competitive. If we do not retain a motivated and effective sales force, or our sales professionals join competitors or form competing companies, it could result in the loss of significant investment opportunities and possibly existing investors, which would have a material impact on our Sponsored Companies. If we do not successfully grow our Sponsored Companies, our asset management business will suffer and our revenues and financial condition could deteriorate.Because there are numerous companies seeking to raise capital through non-traded REITs, it may be more difficult for us to do so, particularly as a relatively new sponsor. The number of entrants in the non-traded REIT space has grown significantly over the last couple of years. We have invested significant capital into the organization and management of our Sponsored Companies, NorthStar Income, NorthStar Healthcare and NorthStar Income II and may in the future invest additional capital in other non-traded REIT products. Based on publicly-available information, as of December 31, 2013, there were 55 active non-traded REITs in the marketplace, including our Sponsored Companies, and 10 others have filed registration statements. As a result, we will be subject to significant competition from these and other companies seeking to raise capital in the non-traded REIT space. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and raise capital through our Sponsored Companies or recoup our invested capital.There is no assurance NorthStar Securities will be able to enter into additional third-party selling agreements on behalf of NorthStar Healthcare, NorthStar Income II or any other new entities we may sponsor. Additionally, declines in asset value and reductions in distributions in our Sponsored Companies could cause the loss of such third-party selling agreements and limit our ability to sign future third-party selling agreements.NorthStar Securities has entered into, and we anticipate will enter into additional third-party selling agreements in order to raise capital for our Sponsored Companies. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to enter into additional third-party selling agreements on favorable terms, or at all, which would hinder or even cease our ability to raise capital for our Sponsored Companies. Additionally, significant declines in asset value and reductions in distributions in our Sponsored Companies could cause us to lose third-party selling agreements and limit our ability to sign future third-party selling agreements.Misconduct by third-party selling broker-dealers or our sales force could have a material adverse effect on our business.We rely on selling broker-dealers and our broker-dealer sales force to properly offer our programs to customers in compliance with our selling agreements and with applicable regulatory requirements. While these persons are responsible for their activities as registered broker-dealers, their actions may nonetheless result in complaints or legal or regulatory action against us. These actions could also directly or indirectly harm the industry generally or our reputation specifically, which could harm our business.Our failure to maintain registration as a broker-dealer member in the various jurisdictions in which we will do business and other interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.NorthStar Securities is a FINRA member wholesale broker-dealer that is registered in the various jurisdictions in which our Sponsored Companies do business. NorthStar Securities must comply with various regulatory guidelines to maintain its FINRA membership and continue to operate as a wholesale broker-dealer. There is no guarantee that FINRA, the SEC or the states or territories in which NorthStar Securities is registered will not take action against NorthStar Securities to remove its membership and/or registrations. Even if we have complied with applicable rules, our broker-dealer could still be subjected to investigation and scrutiny that could distract our management, force us to incur substantial cost and harm our brand. If we have failed to comply with applicable rules, we could be subject to enforcement actions and other penalties that could disrupt our business. Accordingly, such events would delay or potentially hinder sales of our Sponsored Companies’ securities.Government and self-regulatory organization intervention may limit our ability to continue to implement certain strategies or manage certain risks. Government and self-regulatory organizations have significant influence over the regulatory framework under which our company operates. In the past, these organizations have also undertaken significant measures to influence market forces including quantitative easing, direct capital infusions into struggling industries or other programs and strategies. As one recent 49Table of Contentsexample, in January 2014 FINRA filed with the SEC proposed amendments to FINRA rules, which, if adopted by the SEC without modification, may significantly affect the manner in which non-traded REITs, such as our Sponsored Companies, raise capital. The proposed amendments may cause a significant reduction in capital raised by non-traded REITs, which may cause a material negative impact on our Sponsored Companies’ ability to achieve their business plans and to successfully complete their offerings, as the case may be, our ability to launch new Sponsored Companies and may further result in a reduction of revenue we are able to earn from our Sponsored Companies. These proposed amendments could be adopted and become effective during 2014.Such intervention has also in certain cases been implemented on an “emergency” basis, suddenly and substantially eliminating market participants’ ability to continue to implement certain strategies or manage the risk of their outstanding positions. It is impossible to predict what, if any, additional interim or permanent governmental restrictions may be imposed on the markets and the effect of such restrictions on us and our results of operations. There is a high likelihood of significantly increased regulation of the financial markets that could have an impact on our operating results and financial condition.Non-traded REITs have been the subject of increased scrutiny by regulators and media outlets resulting from inquiries and investigations initiated by FINRA and the SEC. We and the non-traded REITs we sponsor could become the subject of scrutiny and may face difficulties in raising capital for these companies should negative perceptions develop regarding non-traded REITs. As a result, we may be unable to raise substantial funds for these companies which would negatively impact our business.The securities of our Sponsored Companies, like other non-traded REITs, are sold through the independent broker-dealer channel (i.e., U.S. broker-dealers that are not affiliated with money center banks or similar financial institutions). Governmental and self-regulatory organizations like the SEC and FINRA impose and enforce regulations on broker-dealers, investment banking firms, investment advisers and similar financial services companies. Self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA, adopt rules, subject to approval by the SEC that govern aspects of the financial services industry and conduct periodic examinations of the operations of registered investment dealers and broker-dealers.Furthermore, in January 2014, FINRA filed with the SEC proposed amendments to FINRA rules, which, if adopted by the SEC without modification, may significantly affect the manner in which non-traded REITs raise capital. The proposed amendments may cause a significant reduction in capital raised by non-traded REITs, which may cause a material negative impact on our Sponsored Companies ability to achieve their business plans and to successfully complete their offerings.As a result of this increased scrutiny and accompanying negative publicity and coverage by media outlets, FINRA may impose additional restrictions on sales practices in the independent broker-dealer channel for non-traded REITs, and accordingly our Sponsored Companies may face increased difficulties in raising capital in their offerings. Should these companies be unable to raise substantial funds in their offerings, the number and type of investments they may make will be curtailed, all of which could materially adversely affect our fee income generated from our broker-dealer that acts as the dealer manager of these offerings as well as the fees we earn based on capital under management and the nature of the transactions undertaken by our Sponsored Companies. If we, or our Sponsored Companies become the subject of scrutiny, even if we have complied with all applicable laws and regulations, responding to such scrutiny could be expensive, harmful to our reputation and be distracting to our management.The creation and management of our Sponsored Companies and other vehicles could require us to register with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act, which could impact the types of investments that it recommends our Sponsored Companies make and cause us not to invest in opportunities that meet the respective Sponsored Companies investment criteria. If we are required to register, it could also hinder our operating performance and negatively impact stockholders’ return on investment.We are not currently required to register as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act. Furthermore, we believe that if we manage our Sponsored Companies consistent with the strategy adopted by their respective board of directors, we will not be required to register under the Investment Advisers Act even as a result of changes to the Investment Advisers Act implemented by the Dodd-Frank Act, which became effective in July 2011. Given the changes instituted by the Dodd-Frank Act, an investment adviser can be required to register with the SEC as an investment adviser if it has regulatory assets under management in excess of relevant statutory thresholds (or meets other statutory requirements), even if it manages only a single entity. Whether an adviser has sufficient regulatory assets under management to require registration depends on the nature of the assets it manages. In calculating regulatory assets under management, we must include the value of each “securities portfolio” we manage. If the investments of our Sponsored Companies were to constitute a “securities portfolio” under the Investment Advisers Act, then we would be required to register. Specifically, we believe that the assets of our Sponsored Companies will not constitute a securities portfolio so long as a majority of the assets consist of originated loans, real estate and cash and the assets do not currently constitute a securities portfolio. Since we do not believe the assets of our Sponsored Companies will constitute a securities portfolio, we do not believe we have any regulatory assets under management, and therefore do not need to register.50Table of ContentsWe intend to manage the investments of our sponsored vehicles consistent with their respective strategy and so as they will continue to not constitute a securities portfolio in the future. In so doing, it is possible that we could determine not to seek and recommend certain CRE debt and securities available on the secondary market that we might otherwise consider for our Sponsored Companies. In such a scenario, we may not invest in opportunities on behalf of our Sponsored Companies that could improve their operating performance and positively impact stockholders’ return on investment. If the board of directors of the respective Sponsored Company determines to modify its strategy in such a way as to make it likely that we would be required to register under the Investment Advisers Act, it could negatively impact our business because we may, among other things, have to devote significant additional management time and may incur significant additional costs, which could decrease stockholders’ return on investment.Termination of management arrangements with one or more of our managed entities could harm our business.We provide management services to our existing Sponsored Companies and certain CDOs and may provide management services to additional entities in the future. Our management services can be terminated for reasons outside of our control. Upon any such termination, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments required, would cease, thereby reducing our expected revenues.We act as special servicer with respect to certain securitization financing transactions and certain CMBS investments and also have administrative responsibilities relating to certain CDOs. We may make decisions that subject us to loss and expose us to liability from third parties related to such responsibilities.We act as special servicer with respect to certain securitization financing transactions and certain CMBS investments. When acting in that capacity, we are responsible for servicing the subject assets in accordance with applicable industry standards, laws, regulations and contractual obligations. As special servicer, we are responsible for critical functions that can have a significant effect on the value of the underlying assets. If we fail to adhere to applicable industry standards, laws, regulations or contractual obligations, or if we make decisions that are not effective, we could suffer significant losses and expose ourselves to substantial liability from third parties who were relying on our servicing function. In addition, for certain CDOs although we have administrative responsibilities relating to the CDOs, the collateral management rights have been delegated to third parties and as a result, we do not have control over the investments made by such CDOs.There are risks in using custodians.Our business may depend on the services of custodians to carry out certain transactions. In the event of the insolvency of a custodian, our managed entities might not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the custodian’s unsecured creditors in relation to assets which the custodian borrows, lends or otherwise uses. In addition, the cash held by our managed entities with a custodian will not be segregated from the custodian’s own cash and such entities will therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto.Risks Related to Our Investments in Healthcare AssetsThe healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect it to become more competitive.We own and manage a portfolio of healthcare properties, with a focus on the mid-acuity senior housing sector. A majority of our assets are assisted living, skilled nursing and independent living facilities. In addition, we are currently raising capital for NorthStar Healthcare, a non-traded REIT formed to originate, acquire and manage a diversified portfolio of debt and equity investments in the healthcare property sector that we sponsor and advise and earn management and other fees for our services. NorthStar Securities also acts as the dealer manager for this offering. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. The operators of the properties we own or lend to compete with numerous other companies that provide long-term care alternatives such as home healthcare agencies, life care at home, facility-based service programs, retirement communities and other independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing providers, including not-for-profit entities. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the assisted living and independent living segments of the healthcare industry are not substantial, although there are often regulatory barriers to the development of skilled nursing facilities. Consequently, our operators may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to attract new residents, raise resident fees or expand their businesses, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.Our failure or the failure of our operators to comply with licensing and certification requirements, the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We or our operators, as the case may be, are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing laws. The ultimate timing or effect of any changes in these laws and 51Table of Contentsregulations cannot be predicted. With respect to our healthcare properties held and operated through net lease structures, we have no direct control over our operators’ ability to meet the numerous federal, state and local regulatory requirements. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our operators to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The ultimate timing or effect of any changes in these laws and regulations cannot be predicted. In addition, failure to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In particular:•Licensing and Certification. We, our operators and our healthcare properties are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities and are periodically surveyed by them to confirm compliance. Failure to obtain licensure or loss or suspension of licensure or certification may prevent a facility from operating or result in a suspension of reimbursement payments until all licensure or certification issues have been resolved and the necessary licenses or certification are obtained or reinstated. Our healthcare properties may require governmental approval in the form of a certificate of need, or CON, that generally varies by state and is subject to change, prior to the addition of new beds, the addition of service or certain capital expenditures. Facilities may also be affected by changes in accreditation standards or procedures of accrediting agencies that are recognized by governments in the certification process. State licensing laws require operators of healthcare facilities to comply with extensive standards governing operations. State agencies administering those laws regularly inspect such facilities and investigate complaints. Failure to meet all regulatory requirements could result in the loss of the ability to provide or bill and receive payment for healthcare services. In such event, revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time or permanently. Transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate.•Medicare and Medicaid. Generally, a portion of the revenue from the operation of our healthcare properties (and a significant portion of the revenue in the case of a skilled nursing facility) is derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, and failure to maintain enrollment and participation in these programs would result in a loss of funding from such programs. Moreover, federal and state governments have adopted and continue to consider various reform proposals to control healthcare costs. In recent years, there have been fundamental changes in the Medicare program that have resulted in reduced levels of payment for a substantial portion of healthcare services. In many instances, revenues from Medicaid programs are already insufficient to cover the actual costs incurred in providing care to patients. In addition, reimbursement from private payors has in many cases effectively been reduced to levels approaching those of government payors. Governmental concern regarding healthcare costs and their budgetary impact and the specter of fraud and abuse in claims reimbursement may result in significant reductions in payments to our operators, and future reimbursement rates for either governmental or private payors may not be sufficient to cover cost increases in providing services to patients. Exclusion, debarment, suspension or other ineligibility to participate in federal healthcare programs or any changes in reimbursement policies that reduce reimbursement to levels that are insufficient to cover the cost of providing patient care could cause our or our operator’s revenue and the value of the affected healthcare properties to decline.•Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations. There are complex federal and state laws governing a wide array of referrals, financial relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers, including criminal provisions that prohibit financial inducements for referrals, filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment or certification under Medicare and Medicaid, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. Governments are devoting increasing attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. The Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has announced a number of new and ongoing initiatives to study instances of potential Medicare and Medicaid overbilling and/or fraud. Violations of these laws subject persons and entities to termination from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded healthcare programs. In addition, the federal False Claims Act allows a private individual with knowledge of fraud to bring a claim on behalf of the federal government and earn a percentage of the federal government’s recovery. Because of these incentives, these so-called “whistleblower” suits have become more frequent. The violation of any of these laws or regulations by us or by any of our operators may result in the imposition of significant monetary damages, fines and other penalties.•Other Laws. Other laws that impact how we and our operators conduct business include: federal and state laws designed to protect the confidentiality and security of patient health information; state and local licensure laws; laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws generally affecting the management of our healthcare properties and equipment and how our operators generally conduct their operations, such as fire, health and safety, and environmental laws; federal and state laws affecting healthcare facilities mandating quality of services and care, and quality of food service; resident rights (including abuse and neglect laws); and health standards set by the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. 52Table of Contents•Legislative and Regulatory Developments. Legislative proposals are often introduced or proposed in the U.S. Congress and in some state legislatures that would effect changes in the healthcare system.The healthcare industry is heavily regulated. New laws or regulations such as the healthcare reform law and related regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our operators to make rent payments to us. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local governmental bodies. Healthcare operators generally are subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs, and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our operators to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Many of our targeted properties and their operators may require a license or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license or CON, or loss of a required license or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operator. These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of healthcare-related facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval. State CON laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state CON laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our operators. In addition, state CON laws often materially impact the ability of competitors to enter into the marketplace of our facilities. The repeal of CON laws could allow competitors to freely operate in previously closed markets. This could negatively affect our operators’ abilities to make rent payments to us. In limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require new CON authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be reduced, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 has not yet been fully implemented. To the extent it has been implemented, there are limited regulations and interpretative guidance. It is impossible to predict the content and timing of future regulations or additional health reform legislation. Future changes could negatively affect our operators’ abilities to make rent payments to us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Comprehensive healthcare reform legislation could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. On March 23, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and on March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 which in part modified the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Together, the two laws serve as the primary vehicle for comprehensive healthcare reform in the United States and are becoming effective through a phased approach, which began in 2010 and will conclude in 2018. The laws are intended to reduce the number of individuals in the United States without health insurance and significantly change the means by which healthcare is organized, delivered and reimbursed. The healthcare reform legislation includes program integrity provisions that both create new authorities and expand existing authorities for federal and state governments to address fraud, waste and abuse in federal health programs. In addition, the healthcare reform legislation expands reporting requirements and responsibilities related to property ownership and management, patient safety and care quality. In the ordinary course of their businesses, our operators may be regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations. If they do not comply with the additional reporting requirements and responsibilities, our operators’ ability to participate in federal health programs may be adversely affected. In addition, the healthcare reform legislation contains new initiatives to strengthen post-acute care services and promote relationships between acute and post-acute care providers. If our operators fail to strengthen or maintain their relationships with acute care providers, the operators’ revenues could decline which could ultimately have an impact on their ability to pay rent. Moreover, there may be other aspects of the healthcare reform legislation for which regulations have not yet been adopted. All of these provisions of the healthcare reform legislation including those that have yet to be adopted, could materially and adversely affect our operators, and therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders. State law may limit the availability of certain types of healthcare facilities for our acquisition or development and may limit our ability to replace obsolete properties.CON laws may impose investment barriers for us. Some states regulate the supply of some types of healthcare facilities, such as skilled nursing facilities or assisted living facilities, through CON laws. A CON typically is a written statement issued by a state regulatory agency evidencing a community’s need for a new, converted, expanded or otherwise significantly modified 53Table of Contentshealthcare facility or service which is regulated pursuant to the state’s statutes. These restrictions may create barriers to entry or expansion and may limit the availability of properties for our acquisition or development. In addition, we may invest in properties which cannot be replaced if they become obsolete unless such replacement is approved or exempt under a CON law.Our operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments.In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time.Some operators of our mid-acuity senior housing and other healthcare properties are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by an operator may jeopardize the operator’s ability to make rent payments to us. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain operators may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. These laws include, but are not limited to: •the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral or recommendation for ordering of any item or service reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid; •the Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians from making referrals for specifically designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship; •the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including claims paid by the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and•the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts. Each of these laws includes criminal and civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Additionally, states in which the facilities are located may have similar fraud and abuse laws. Investigation by a federal or state governmental body for violation of fraud and abuse laws or imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our operators could jeopardize that operator’s ability to operate or to make rent payments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Economic downturns, weakness in the housing and equity markets, lowered consumer confidence and other events could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford the entrance fees or monthly resident fees for our healthcare facilities and, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Costs to seniors associated with independent and assisted living services are generally not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our facilities are located typically will be able to afford to pay the entrance fees and monthly resident fees. Economic downturns, softness in the housing market, lower levels of consumer confidence, reductions or declining growth of government entitlement programs (such as social security benefits), stock market volatility, changes in demographics and other events could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford the entrance fees or monthly resident fees for our healthcare facilities. If our operators are unable to retain and attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services and other services provided by our operators at our healthcare facilities, our occupancy rates could decline, which could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. 54Table of ContentsThe inability of seniors to sell real estate may delay their moving into our facilities which could materially adversely affect our occupancy rates and our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Downturns in the U.S. housing market could adversely affect the ability (or perceived ability) of seniors to afford entrance fees and monthly resident fees at our healthcare facilities, as potential residents frequently use the proceeds from the sale of their homes to cover the costs of these fees. Specifically, if seniors have a difficult time selling their homes, these difficulties could impact their ability to relocate into our facilities or finance their stays at our facilities. This could cause the amount of our revenues generated by private payment sources to decline. The U.S. housing market has improved, however, the uncertainty over the federal budget deficit, political gridlock and many other factors continue to weigh on the markets and the economy. If the housing market does not continue to improve or again declines, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Government budget deficits could lead to a reduction in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement.The recession and subsequent slow recovery of the U.S. economy continues to affect state budgets, which may put pressure on states to decrease reimbursement rates with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under state Medicaid programs. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in state Medicaid programs due to unemployment, declines in family incomes and eligibility expansions authorized by the healthcare reform law. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement rates under the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs and other healthcare related programs. Potential reductions in reimbursements under these programs could negatively impact the ability of our operators and their ability to meet their obligations to us. Possible changes in the acuity profile of our residents as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The sources and amounts of our revenues from our healthcare property portfolio are determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity, occupancy, the acuity profile of residents and the rate of reimbursement. Changes in the acuity profile of the residents as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare properties, we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Healthcare properties are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times operator-specific. A new or replacement operator may require different features in a property, depending on that operator’s particular operations. If a current operator is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial costs to modify a property for a new operator, or for multiple operators with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to release the space. Consequently, our healthcare properties may not be suitable for lease to other operators or for alternative uses without significant costs or renovations, which costs may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.If our operators fail to maintain a positive reputation and cultivate new or maintain existing relationships with residents in the markets in which they operate, our operators’ occupancy percentage, payor mix and resident rates may deteriorate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The ability of our operators to obtain and maintain the overall occupancy percentage, payor mix and resident rates at our healthcare facilities depends on our operators’ reputation in the communities they serve and our operators’ ability to successfully market our facilities to potential residents. A large part of our operators’ marketing and sales effort is directed towards cultivating and maintaining legally compliant relationships with key community organizations that work with seniors, physicians and other healthcare providers in the communities where our facilities are located, whose referral practices significantly affect the choices seniors make with respect to their long-term care needs. If our operators are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these community organizations, physicians and other healthcare providers, occupancy rates at our facilities could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our operators may mismanage our healthcare facilities, be subjected to governmental intervention, including shutting down of the facilities and be the subject of negative public news articles and other adverse attention. In such a case, our operators’ ability to continue functioning would be in severe jeopardy and our ability to realize value on our underlying assets could be materially adversely affected.55Table of ContentsWe may not be able to compete effectively in those markets where overbuilding exists and our inability to compete in those markets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Overbuilding in the healthcare segment in the late 1990s reduced occupancy and revenue rates at healthcare properties. This, combined with unsustainable levels of borrowings, forced several operators into bankruptcy. The occurrence of another period of overbuilding could adversely affect our future occupancy and resident fee rates, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our operators may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Our operators may be subject to claims that their services have resulted in resident injury or other adverse effects. The insurance coverage maintained by our operators, whether through commercial insurance or self-insurance, may not cover all claims made against them or continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to our operators due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, our operators operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. From time-to-time, there may also be increases in government investigations of long-term care providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid fraud and abuse and resident care, as well as increases in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or government investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could lead to potential termination from government programs, large penalties and fines and otherwise have a material adverse effect on a healthcare operator’s financial condition. If a healthcare operator is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if a healthcare operator is required to pay uninsured punitive damages or if a healthcare operator is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, the healthcare operator could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which could result in its bankruptcy or insolvency or have a material adverse effect on the healthcare operator’s business and its ability to meet its obligations to us. Moreover, advocacy groups that monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities have sued healthcare operators and called upon state and federal legislators to enhance their oversight of trends in healthcare facility ownership and quality of care. In response, the healthcare reform law imposes additional reporting requirements and responsibilities for healthcare operators. Patients have also sued healthcare operators and have, in certain cases, succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. Even if the plaintiffs are not successful in obtaining the awards, the allegations may have an adverse effect on our operators’ reputation and may be detrimental to future operations. This litigation and potential future litigation has materially increased the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. Furthermore, the cost of medical malpractice and liability insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Compliance with the requirements in the healthcare reform law could increase costs as well. Increased costs could limit our operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. To the extent we are required to remove or replace an operator, our revenue from the affected property could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. Delays in our operators’ collection of their accounts receivable could adversely affect their cash flow and financial condition and their ability to meet their obligations to us. Prompt billing and collection are important factors in the liquidity of our operators. Billing and collection of accounts receivable are subject to the complex regulations that govern Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and rules imposed by non-government payors. The inability of our operators to bill and collect on a timely basis pursuant to these regulations and rules or pursuant to any other programs, federal, state or otherwise, could subject them to payment delays that could negatively impact their cash flow and ultimately their financial condition and their ability to meet their obligations to us. We face increasing competition for the acquisition of healthcare properties which may impede our ability to make acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We compete with many other businesses engaged in real estate investment activities for the acquisition of healthcare properties, including local, regional and national operators and acquirers and developers of healthcare real estate. The competition for healthcare properties may significantly increase the price we might pay for a facility or property we seek to acquire and our competitors may succeed in acquiring those facilities or properties themselves. In addition, operators with whom we attempt to do business may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger healthcare REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating 56Table of Contentsefficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition may result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for healthcare properties, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders may be materially adversely affected.Adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The healthcare industry, including the senior housing sector, is currently experiencing: •changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services; •changes in third-party reimbursement policies; •significant unused capacity in certain areas, which has created substantial competition for patients among healthcare providers in those areas; •continued pressure by private and governmental payors to reduce payments to providers of services; and •increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by federal and state authorities. These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our senior housing and other healthcare property operators and, in turn, our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Reimbursement rates from third-party payors have been reduced in the past and could be reduced again in the future, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our ability to generate revenue and income influences the underlying value of our mid-acuity senior housing facilities. With respect to our skilled nursing facilities primarily, these revenues are generally derived from reimbursements paid to our operators. Sources of reimbursements include Medicare, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers and the patients themselves. Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as numerous private insurance and managed care plans, generally require participating providers to accept government-determined reimbursement levels as payment in full for services rendered, without regard to a property’s charges. Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements, have in the past, and could in the future, result in a substantial reduction in our operators’ revenues and, therefore, our operators’ ability to pay rent. Additionally, revenue realizable under third-party payor agreements can change after examination and retroactive adjustment by payors during the claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable or reasonable or because additional documentation is necessary or because certain services were not covered or were not medically necessary. The recently enacted healthcare reform law and regulatory changes could impose further limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 requires annual Medicare provider payment updates, including for skilled nursing facilities, to be reduced by a productivity adjustment based on economy-wide productivity. In 2012, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid reduced overall Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities by 11% and changed payment and reporting requirements for therapy services. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, the enforcement mechanism has been triggered so that the U.S. President is required to issue a sequestration order each year for across-the-board federal spending cuts applicable to fiscal years 2013 to 2021. Medicare provider payments are subject to this sequestration. The President issued a sequestration order so that Medicare payments to plans and providers are to be reduced by two percent during this time period. Also, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 extended this sequestration to include fiscal years 2022 and 2023. In some cases, states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private healthcare insurance. Moreover, owners and operators of senior housing facilities continue to experience pressures from private payors attempting to control healthcare costs and reimbursement from private payors has in many cases effectively been reduced to levels approaching those of government payors. We cannot assure stockholders that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available. We also cannot accurately predict the percentage of revenue that will be generated from our facilities as a result of private pay or government funded reimbursements. Further limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. 57Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our CompanyOur ability to operate our business successfully would be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us.Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our key personnel, including our executive officers, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, David T. Hamamoto, President, Albert Tylis and Chief Investment and Operating Officer, Daniel R. Gilbert in particular. For instance, the extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and nature of the relationships they have developed with real estate professionals and financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. Our executive officers have significant real estate investment experience. We cannot assure stockholders of their continued employment with us. The loss of services of certain of our executive officers could harm our business and our prospects.Our board of directors has and will likely in the future adopt certain incentive plans to create incentives that will allow us to retain and attract the services of key employees. These incentive plans may be tied to the performance of our common stock and a decline in our stock price may result in us being unable to motivate and retain our management and these other employees. Our inability to motivate and retain these individuals could also harm our business and our prospects. Additionally, competition for experienced real estate professionals could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract qualified employees, which could result in higher compensation expenses to us.If our ability to issue equity awards to employees is limited, it will require us to award greater cash compensation in relation to previous levels of cash compensation, which will reduce our liquidity and could impact our ability to retain key employees.We have historically paid a substantial portion of our overall compensation in the form of equity awards. We may at times have limited availability under our incentive plans to issue equity awards to our employees. We may seek stockholder approval for additional equity awards and there is no assurance stockholders would grant such approval. To the extent we do not have sufficient equity awards available, we may have to compensate our employees in a greater proportion of cash relative to historical periods. Because CAD and adjusted funds from operations, or AFFO, excludes equity-based compensation expense, payment of higher levels of cash relative to equity awards will have a negative impact on CAD and AFFO and reduce our liquidity position. Additionally, the lack of availability of equity awards could impact our ability to retain employees as equity awards historically have been a significant component of our long-term incentives.Our platform may not be as scalable as we anticipate and we could face difficulties growing our business without significant new investment in personnel and infrastructure. While we believe our platform for operating our business is highly scalable and can support significant growth without substantial new investment in personnel and infrastructure, we may be wrong in that assessment. Our business has grown substantially over the course of the past year which has placed additional demands on management and other personnel, as well as our support infrastructure. It is possible that if our business continues to grow substantially, we will need to make significant new investment in personnel and infrastructure to support that growth. We may be unable to make significant investments on a timely basis or at reasonable costs and our failure in this regard could disrupt our business and operations. If our portfolio management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.We continue to refine our portfolio management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. However, our portfolio management techniques and strategies may not fully mitigate the risk exposure of our operations in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in our portfolio management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in our operations or to seek adequate risk-adjusted returns and could result in losses. Refer to Item 1. “Business - Portfolio Management” for additional details regarding portfolio management. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business.As a diversified CRE investment and asset management company, our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, including systems provided by third parties for which we have no control. Any failure or interruption of our systems, whether as a result of human error or otherwise, could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.We may determine to grow our business through acquisitions of assets or other companies which entails substantial risk. We may determine to grow our business through the acquisition of assets or other companies. Such acquisitions entail substantial risk. During our due diligence of such acquisitions, we may not uncover all relevant liabilities and we may have limited, if any, recourse against the sellers. Further, we may not successfully integrate the assets or company that we acquire into our business and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition.58Table of ContentsWe believe CAD, a non-GAAP measure, provides a meaningful indicator of our operating performance, however, CAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as an indicator of operating performance.Management will primarily use CAD to evaluate our profitability and our board of directors will consider CAD in determining our quarterly cash distributions. CAD is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe that CAD is useful because it adjusts net income (loss) for a variety of non-cash items. We calculate CAD by subtracting from or adding to net income (loss): equity-based compensation, depreciation and straight-line rent and transaction and other costs. In future periods, such adjustments may include amortization of deferred financing costs and other one-time events pursuant to changes in U.S. GAAP and certain other non-recurring items. These items, if applicable, include any adjustments for unconsolidated ventures.CAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss), determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as an indicator of operating performance. In addition, our methodology for calculating CAD may differ from the methodologies used by other comparable companies when calculating the same or similar supplemental financial measures and may not be comparable with these companies. For example, our calculation of CAD per share does not take into account any potential dilution from our exchangeable senior notes or warrants outstanding, or restricted stock units subject to performance metrics not yet achieved. We believe AFFO, a non-GAAP measure, is an appropriate measure of our operating performance, however, in certain instances AFFO may not be reflective of actual economic results.We use AFFO as a measure of our operating performance and believe that it is useful to investors because it facilitates an understanding of our operating performance after adjustment for certain non-cash expenses, such as equity-based compensation and unrealized gains (losses) from fair value adjustments. Additionally, we believe that AFFO serves as a reasonable measure of our operating performance because it facilitates evaluation of our company without the effects of selected items required in accordance U.S. GAAP that may not necessarily be indicative of current operating performance and that may not accurately compare our operating performance between periods. Nonetheless, in certain instances AFFO may not necessarily be reflective of our actual economic results. For example, if we purchase CMBS at par but the fair value is reduced in a given year, and then we sell the CMBS in the subsequent year at a price between par and the reduced fair value, we would report a realized gain for purposes of AFFO as the difference between the year-end fair value and the sales price even though we would have suffered an economic loss. Our book value would, however, accurately reflect the economic loss because the decrease in fair value of the CMBS in the year of purchase would have been recorded as an unrealized loss in our consolidated statements of operations. As a second example, if we repurchase one of our CDO bonds of our consolidated N-Star CDOs for 50% of par in a given year and its fair value at the end of the prior year was below 50% of par, we would recognize a realized loss on retirement of liabilities for AFFO purposes when we repurchase such CDO bond even though there is a positive economic impact to the retirement of the liability. Consistent with the first example, while our book value would properly reflect the economic benefit from the repurchase of our liability because the decrease in value of the liability would have been recorded as an unrealized gain in the prior year, the impact to AFFO would not be reflective of actual economic results.While we believe adjusted book value is a useful measure to report, it is subject to significant judgment and may not be reflective of actual economic value. We have and may continue to report adjusted book value in our earnings releases and elsewhere, which is a non-GAAP measure. We believe adjusted book value is a useful measure to report to investors because it adjusts for certain items that may not necessarily be indicative of our actual economic book value. Adjusted book value: (i) adds back accumulated depreciation and amortization on owned real estate; (ii) takes into account the expected recovery value of our N-Star CDO bonds; and (iii) subtracts net unrealized gain (loss) of assets and liabilities of consolidated CDOs. The adjustments, however, may not provide investors with a meaningful measure by which to evaluate our economic book value. Additionally, adjusted book value per share does not take into account any potential dilution from our exchangeable senior notes or warrants outstanding or restricted stock units subject to performance metrics not yet achieved. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on it. The use of estimates and valuations may be different from actual results, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, establishing provision for loan losses and potential litigation liability. Market volatility may make it difficult to determine the fair value for certain of our assets and liabilities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these financial instruments in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these assets and liabilities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time for that particular type of asset and may be materially lower than our estimate of their current fair value. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual values and 59Table of Contentsresults could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.Our distribution policy is subject to change.Our board of directors determines an appropriate common stock distribution based upon numerous factors, including REIT qualification requirements, the amount of cash flow generated from operations, availability of existing cash balances, borrowing capacity under existing credit agreements, access to cash in the capital markets and other financing sources, our view of our ability to realize gains in the future through appreciation in the value of our assets, general economic conditions and economic conditions that more specifically impact our business or prospects. Our board of directors reviewed changes to our distribution on a quarterly basis in 2013 but may review less frequently in the future. Furthermore, we have experienced a significant increase in our distribution on our common stock over the past year, however, there is no assurance this trend will continue and our distribution level could remain flat or decline. Future distribution levels are subject to further adjustment based upon any one or more of the risk factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other factors that our board of directors may, from time-to-time, deem relevant to consider when determining an appropriate common stock distribution.We may not be able to make distributions in the future.Our ability to generate income and to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any document we file with the SEC under the Exchange Act. All distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable law, and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time-to-time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future.Our ability to make distributions is limited by the requirements of Maryland law.Our ability to make distributions on our common stock is limited by the laws of Maryland. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland corporation may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its liabilities as the liabilities become due in the usual course of business, or generally if the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we may not make a distribution on our common stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our liabilities as they become due in the usual course of business or generally if our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any series of preferred stock then outstanding, if any, with preferences senior to those of our common stock.Stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We have in the past and may continue to undertake numerous and substantial offerings of our common stock and securities that are convertible into our common stock. If we continue to engage in such offerings, whether through the public markets or in private placements, our existing stockholders may experience immediate and substantial dilution in their percentage ownership of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, stockholders may experience dilution in the value of their shares depending on the terms and pricing of any new issuances and the value of our assets at such time. Stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face as stockholders.Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding growth, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. We may change our investment policies without stockholder notice or consent, which could result in investments that are different than, or in different proportion than, those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, and our charter, stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Stockholders will not have the right to vote on the consummation of the proposed spin-off of our asset management business. Our board of directors’ broad discretion in setting policies and stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders face.Risks Related to Regulatory Matters and Our REIT Tax StatusWe are subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies and failure to comply with these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We and our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies. 60Table of ContentsGiven our organizational structure, we are subject to regulation by the SEC, NYSE, FINRA, IRS, and other federal, state and local governmental bodies and agencies. These regulations are extensive, complex and require substantial management time and attention. If we fail to comply with any of the regulations that apply to our business, we could be subjected to extensive investigations as well as substantial penalties and our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Our lack of compliance with applicable law could result in among other penalties, our ineligibility to contract with and receive revenue from the federal government or other governmental authorities and agencies. We also have numerous contractual obligations that we must adhere to on a continuous basis to operate our business, the default of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have also established internal policies designed to ensure that we manage our business in accordance with applicable law and regulation and in accordance with our contractual obligations. While we have designed policies to appropriately operate our business, these internal policies may not be effective in all regards and, further, if we fail to comply with our internal policies, we could be subjected to additional risk and liability. The direct or indirect effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010 for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, may have an adverse effect on our interest rate hedging activities.In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law in the United States. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act provides for significantly increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that could affect our interest rate hedging or other risk management activities, including: (i) regulatory reporting for swaps; (ii) mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated exchanges or electronic facilities for certain swaps; and (iii) margin and collateral requirements. Although the U.S Commodity Futures Trading Commission has not yet finalized certain requirements, many other requirements have taken effect, such as swap reporting, the mandatory clearing of certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps and the mandatory trading of certain swaps on swap execution facilities or exchanges starting in February 2014. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our interest rate hedging activities cannot be assessed until implementing rules and regulations are adopted, the requirements of Title VII may affect our ability to enter into hedging or other risk management transactions, may increase our costs in entering into such transactions and may result in us entering into such transactions on less favorable terms than prior to effectiveness of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events may have an adverse effect on our business.Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations.Neither we, nor our operating partnership NorthStar Realty Finance Limited Partnership, or our Operating Partnership, nor any of the subsidiaries of our Operating Partnership intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We intend to make investments and conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: •limitations on capital structure; •restrictions on specified investments; •prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and •compliance with reporting, recordkeeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. 61Table of ContentsSection 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. Excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, are securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses through subsidiaries, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception from the definition of “investment company” in Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own directly, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through these subsidiaries.We must monitor our holdings and those of our Operating Partnership and our majority-owned private REIT subsidiary, Sub-REIT, through which we hold the substantial majority of our investments, are investment companies because each of them satisfy the 40% test ensure that the value of their investment securities does not exceed 40% of their respective total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Through Sub-REIT’s wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, we, our Operating Partnership and Sub-REIT will be primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of these subsidiaries, namely the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other interests in real estate. Most of these subsidiaries will rely on the exception from the definition of an investment company under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which is available for entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of a subsidiary’s portfolio must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of its portfolio must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets (and no more than 20% comprised of miscellaneous assets). For purposes of the exclusions provided by Sections 3(c)(5)(C), we will classify our investments based in large measure on no-action letters issued by the SEC staff and other SEC interpretive guidance and, in the absence of SEC Guidance, on our view of what constitutes a qualifying real estate asset and a real estate related asset. These no-action positions were issued in accordance with factual situations that may be substantially different from the factual situations we may face, and a number of these no-action positions were issued more than twenty years ago. In August 2011, the SEC issued a concept release in which it asked for comments on various aspects of Section 3(c)(5)(C), and, accordingly, the SEC or its staff may issue further guidance in the future. Future revisions to the Investment Company Act or further guidance from the SEC or its staff may force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our investment strategy.Certain of our other subsidiaries do not satisfy the 40% test, but instead rely on other exceptions and exemptions from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act that either limits the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or the manner in which these subsidiaries may acquire and sell assets. For instance, certain of our CDOs rely on the exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act provided by Rule 3a-7 thereunder, which is available for certain structured financing vehicles. This exemption limits the ability of these CDOs to sell their assets and reinvest the proceeds from asset sales. The loss of our Investment Company Act exemption could require us to register as an investment company or substantially change the way we conduct our business, either of which may have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock.On August 31, 2011, the SEC published a concept release (Release No. 29778, File No. S7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage Related Instruments), pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in mortgage-backed securities and rely on the exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, such as us, should continue to be allowed to rely on such an exemption from registration. If the SEC takes action with respect to this exemption, these changes could mean that certain of our CDOs and other subsidiaries could no longer rely on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption, and would have to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), which would mean that our investment in those subsidiaries would be investment securities. This could result in our failure to maintain our exemption from registration as an investment company.If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, either because of SEC interpretational changes or otherwise, we could, among other things, be required either: (i) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company; or (ii) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial 62Table of Contentsregulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. If certain portions of a recently released discussion draft of tax reform legislation were introduced as legislation and enacted in their current form, the spin-off of our asset management business could be treated as a taxable transaction to us and our stockholders, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT.On February 26, 2014, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) released a discussion draft of tax reform legislation, or the Discussion Draft. Among the proposals in the Discussion Draft is a provision that would prohibit REITs from conducting tax-free spin-offs under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Discussion Draft provides that this prohibition would be effective for distributions made on or after February 26, 2014. However, under a transition rule, the prohibition will not apply to REITs that make distributions pursuant to an agreement that was binding on February 26, 2014 and at all times thereafter. It is unclear whether the Discussion Draft will be introduced as legislation or enacted and, if so and in either case, in what form. On December 10, 2013 we publicly announced our plan to spin-off our asset management business in a tax-free transaction and as of February 26, 2014, we have entered into agreements with: (i) one of our joint venture partners: (ii) all three of our Sponsored Companies; and (iii) our Operating Partnership, Sub-REIT and NSAM pursuant to which we have contractually agreed to complete the spin-off of our asset management business by December 31, 2014. We believe that those agreements are binding agreements. If the Discussion Draft were to be introduced as legislation and enacted into law in its present form and it was later determined by the IRS or the courts that the law would have retroactive effect to the date it was first proposed for discussion as well as that our plan to effect the spin-off as announced in December 2013 and our agreements described above to complete the spin-off by December 31, 2014 did not constitute “binding agreements” within the meaning of the law, the spin-off of our asset management business would be treated as a taxable transaction to us and our stockholders, which could cause us fail to qualify as a REIT unless the failure qualifies for a statutory “REIT savings provision.”Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us. This could depress our stock price.Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: •“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and•“control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.Pursuant to the Maryland Business Combination Act, our board of directors has exempted any business combinations: (i) between us and NorthStar Capital Investment Corp. or any of its affiliates; and (ii) between us and any person, provided that any such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements do not apply to business combinations between us and any of them. As a result, such parties may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of stockholders, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions in the statute. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that these resolutions or exemptions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control.Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate 63Table of Contentsnumber of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of stockholders.Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of stockholders.Maryland law also allows a corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in its charter or bylaws, to a classified board, unless its charter prohibits such an election. Our charter contains a provision prohibiting such an election to classify our board of directors under this provision of Maryland law. This may make us more vulnerable to a change in control. If stockholders voted to amend this charter provision and to classify our board of directors, the staggered terms of our directors could reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of stockholders. Our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax and reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to continue to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal and applicable state and local income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net income available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. We hold substantially all of our assets through Sub-REIT, which is organized to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Additionally, we have sponsored and manage, through Sub-REIT, additional entities that qualify or intend to qualify as REITs. Sub-REIT and any REITs we sponsor and manage must also meet all of the REIT qualification tests under the Internal Revenue Code and are subject to all of the same risks as us. If Sub-REIT did not continue to qualify as a REIT, it is likely that we would also not continue to qualify as a REIT. If, for any reason, we failed to continue to qualify as a REIT and we were not entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to so qualify.Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow funds to make distributions to stockholders or otherwise depend on external sources of capital to fund such distributions.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we may elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain. In that case, a stockholder would be taxed on its proportionate share of our undistributed long-term gain and would receive a credit or refund for its proportionate share of the tax we paid. A stockholder, including a tax-exempt or foreign stockholder, would have to file a federal income tax return to claim that credit or refund. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We anticipate that distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income, although a portion of such distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gain to the extent attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that such distribution exceeds our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes.From time-to-time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income (loss) for U.S. GAAP, due to among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, fair value adjustments and reserves. In addition, our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders as a result of, among other things, repurchases of our outstanding debt at a discount and investments in assets that generate taxable income in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets (for example, if a borrower defers the payment of interest in cash pursuant to a contractual right or otherwise).64Table of ContentsWe believe that our Operating Partnership properly elected to defer, under Section 108(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, the recognition of cancellation of indebtedness, or COD, income generated from repurchasing its debt at a discount. If the IRS successfully challenges our Operating Partnership’s ability to make that election, we may be treated as having failed to pay sufficient dividends to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and/or avoid the corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. We may be required to correct any failure to meet the 90% distribution requirement by paying deficiency dividends to stockholders and an interest charge to the IRS in a later year.Additionally, under Section 108(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, our Operating Partnership will be required to recognize the deferred COD income described in the previous paragraph ratably over a five-taxable year period beginning in 2014, which will increase the amount of our annual REIT distribution requirement in each of those years, without any corresponding increase in cash flow.If we do not have other funds available in the situations described in the preceding paragraphs, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to distribute enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity.Because of the distribution requirement, it is unlikely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund future capital needs, we likely will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including both debt and equity financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third‑party sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our stock.We could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT if the IRS successfully challenges our treatment of our mezzanine loans and repurchase agreements.We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. If the IRS disagrees with the application of these provisions to our assets or transactions, including with respect to assets we have owned in past transactions, our REIT qualification could be jeopardized. For example, IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in Revenue Procedure 2003-65, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests and interest derived from it will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the 75% income test. Although Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. Moreover, our mezzanine loans typically do not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in mezzanine loans in a manner that we believe will enable us to continue to satisfy the REIT gross income and asset tests. In addition, we have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our mortgage assets to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we will be treated for federal income tax purposes as the owner of the mortgage assets that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement notwithstanding that we transferred record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the mortgage assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. Even if the IRS were to disagree with one or more of our interpretations and we were treated as having failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, we could maintain our REIT qualification if our failure was excused under certain statutory savings provisions. However, there can be no guarantee that we would be entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions if we failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, and even if we were entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions, we could be required to pay a penalty tax.The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.The IRS has issued Revenue Procedure 2003-65, which provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan that is secured by interests in a pass-through entity will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT tests, and interest derived from such loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. We originated and acquired and will continue to originate and acquire mezzanine loans that do not satisfy all of the requirements for reliance on the safe harbor set forth in the Revenue Procedure. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the tax treatment of such loans, which could jeopardize our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.65Table of ContentsEven if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of a taking title to collateral, the federal alternative minimum tax and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs.Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to stockholders and the ownership of our stock. As discussed above, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Additionally, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise attractive to us in order to satisfy the source of income requirements for qualifying as a REIT.We must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences, unless certain relief provisions apply. As a result, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of profit maximization and may require us to liquidate investments from our portfolio, or refrain from making, otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to stockholders.Modification of the terms of our CRE debt investments and mortgage loans underlying our CMBS in conjunction with reductions in the value of the real property securing such loans could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.Our CRE debt and securities investments have been and may continue to be materially affected by a weak real estate market and economy in general. As a result, many of the terms of our CRE debt and the mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities may be modified to avoid taking title to a property and for other reasons. Under the Internal Revenue Code, if the terms of a loan are modified in a manner constituting a “significant modification,” such modification triggers a deemed exchange of the original loan for the modified loan. In general, under applicable Treasury Regulations, or the Loan-to-Value Regulation, if a loan is secured by real property and other property and the highest principal amount of the loan outstanding during a taxable year exceeds the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date we agreed to acquire the loan or the date we significantly modified the loan, a portion of the interest income from such loan will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, but will be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Although the law is not entirely clear, a portion of the loan will likely be a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test. The non-qualifying portion of such a loan would be subject to, among other requirements, the requirement that a REIT not hold securities possessing more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, or the 10% Value Test.IRS Revenue Procedure 2011-16 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which we will not be required to redetermine the fair market value of the real property securing a loan for purposes of the gross income and asset tests discussed above in connection with a loan modification that is: (i) occasioned by a borrower default; or (ii) made at a time when we reasonably believe that the modification to the loan will substantially reduce a significant risk of default on the original loan. No assurance can be provided that all of our loan modifications have or will qualify for the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2011-16. To the extent we significantly modify loans in a manner that does not qualify for that safe harbor, we will be required to redetermine the value of the real property securing the loan at the time it was significantly modified. In determining the value of the real property securing such a loan, we generally will not obtain third-party appraisals, but rather will rely on internal valuations. No assurance can be provided that the IRS will not successfully challenge our internal valuations. If the terms of our CRE debt investments and mortgage loans underlying our CMBS are “significantly modified” in a manner that does not qualify for the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2011-16 and the fair market value of the real property securing such loans has decreased significantly, we could fail the 75% gross income test, the 75% asset test and/or the 10% Value Test. Unless we qualified for relief under certain Internal Revenue Code cure provisions, such failures could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.66Table of ContentsOur ability to invest in distressed debt may be limited by our intention to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We have and may in the future acquire distressed debt, including distressed first mortgage loans, subordinate interests, mezzanine loans and CMBS. In general, under the Loan-to-Value Regulation, if a loan is secured by real property and other property and the highest principal amount of the loan outstanding during a taxable year exceeds the fair market value of the real property securing the loan as of the date we agreed to acquire the loan or the date we significantly modified the loan, a portion of the interest income from such a loan will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, but will be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Although the law is not entirely clear, a portion of the loan will also likely be a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test. The non-qualifying portion of such a loan would be subject to, among other requirements, the 10% Value Test. IRS Revenue Procedure 2011-16 provides a safe harbor under which the IRS has stated that it will not challenge a REIT’s treatment of a loan as being, in part, a qualifying real estate asset in an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date the REIT committed to originate or acquire the loan; or (ii) the fair market value of the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT asset testing date. This safe harbor will help us comply with the REIT asset tests immediately following the acquisition of distressed debt. It will be less helpful as the value of the distressed debt increases. Under the safe harbor, when the value of a distressed debt exceeds the fair market value of the real property that secures the debt, determined as of the date we committed to acquire the debt, the excess will be treated as a non-qualifying asset. Accordingly, an increasing portion of a distressed debt will be treated as a non-qualifying asset as the value of the distressed debt increases. Additionally, Revenue Procedure 2011-16 states that the IRS will treat a distressed debt as producing a significant amount of non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test. Specifically, Revenue Procedure 2011-16 indicates that interest income on distressed debt will be treated as qualifying income based on the ratio of (i) fair market value of the real property securing the debt determined as of the date we committed to acquire the debt and (ii) the face amount of the debt (and not the purchase price of the debt). The face amount of a distressed debt will typically exceed the fair market value of the real property securing the debt on the date we commit to acquire the debt. Because distressed debt may produce a significant amount of non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test and a significant portion of a distressed debt may be treated as a non-qualifying asset for the REIT asset tests once the debt increases in value, we may be limited in our ability to invest in distressed debt and maintain our qualification as a REIT.Our investments in distressed debt may produce “phantom income” that will increase the amount of taxable income we have to distribute to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and may cause us to sell assets, borrow or make taxable distributions of debt or equity securities to satisfy that requirement. Our acquisition of distressed debt may cause us to recognize “phantom income” (or non-cash income) for federal income tax purposes. For example, if we acquire non-publicly traded distressed debt and then significantly modify that debt, we would recognize gain on the resulting deemed exchange equal to the difference between the adjusted issue price of the distressed debt and our adjusted tax basis in the distressed debt. Because we typically acquire distressed debt at a significant discount, our adjusted tax basis in the distressed debt typically is significantly lower than the adjusted issue price of the distressed debt. Accordingly, if we significantly modify non-publicly traded distressed debt, we may recognize a substantial amount of taxable income without receiving any cash. That “phantom income” will increase the amount of taxable income we are required to distribute to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement. To satisfy that requirement, we may have to sell assets or borrow funds at inopportune times or make taxable distributions of our debt or equity securities.Our acquisition of CRE debt or securities investments may cause us to recognize income for federal income tax purposes even though no cash payments have been received on the debt investments.We may acquire CRE debt or securities investments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. The amount of such discount will generally be treated as a “market discount’’ for federal income tax purposes. If these debt or securities investments provide for “payment-in-kind,’’ we may recognize “original issue discount,’’ or OID, for federal income tax purposes. Moreover, we may acquire distressed debt investments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. If the amendments to the outstanding debt constitute “significant modifications’’ under the applicable Treasury Regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower. In that event, if the debt is considered to be “publicly-traded’’ for federal income tax purposes, the modified debt in our hands may be considered to have been issued with OID to the extent the fair market value of the modified debt is less than the principal amount of the outstanding debt. In the event the debt is not considered to be “publicly traded’’ for federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our cost of purchasing it. Also, certain loans that we originate and certain previously modified debt we acquire in the secondary market may be considered to have been issued with the OID at the time it was modified.In general, we will be required to accrue OID on a debt instrument as taxable income in accordance with applicable federal income tax rules even though no cash payments may be received on such debt instrument.67Table of ContentsIn the event a borrower with respect to a particular debt instrument encounters financial difficulty rendering it unable to pay stated interest as due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income. Similarly, we may be required to accrue interest income with respect to subordinate mortgage-backed securities at the stated rate regardless of when their corresponding cash payments are received. In order to meet the REIT distribution requirements, it might be necessary for us to arrange for short-term, or possibly long-term, borrowings, or to pay distributions in the form of our shares or other taxable in-kind distributions of property. We may need to borrow funds at times when the market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of a stockholders’ investment. In the event in-kind distributions are made, a stockholder’s tax liabilities 68Table of Contentsassociated with an investment in our common stock for a given year may exceed the amount of cash we distribute to stockholders during such year.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations effectively. Our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. Additionally, our gross income from qualifying hedges entered into prior to July 31, 2008 constitutes non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Consequently, our gross income from qualifying hedges entered into prior to July 31, 2008, along with other sources of non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, cannot exceed 25% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. Any hedging income earned by a TRS would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur.We may fail to continue to qualify as a REIT as a result of our fee income from managing certain structured finance and investment vehicles and our income from active businesses.We currently manage certain structured finance and investment vehicles that are treated as TRSs or REITs. Fee income and active business income that we generate directly (rather than through a TRS) constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 95% and 75% gross income tests. It is not possible to predict with complete accuracy the amount of gross income that we will generate in any taxable year due to, among other things, fluctuations in interest rates. Accordingly, our qualifying income for purposes of our gross income tests may be lower than we anticipate, and, conversely, our fee income and active business income may be higher than we anticipate. If our fee income and active business income, combined with other sources of non-qualifying income, such as income from non-qualifying hedges, exceed 5% of our gross income, we would fail to satisfy the 95% gross income test. Unless we qualified for certain Internal Revenue Code cure provisions, a failure of the 95% gross income test would cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax on any resulting gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory.Legislative or regulatory tax changes could adversely affect us or stockholders.At any time, the federal income tax laws can change. Laws and rules governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or stockholders. The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to engage in transactions, including disposition of assets and certain methods of securitizing loans, which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than property that we took title to as a result of a default on a debt investment or lease and for which we make a foreclosure property election, but including loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to the prohibited transaction tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that is treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we use for any securitization financing transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Additionally, we may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax upon a disposition of real property. Although a safe-harbor exception to prohibited transaction treatment is available, we cannot assure stockholders that we can comply with such safe harbor or that we will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of real property or may conduct such sales through a TRS.It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by conducting certain activities through a TRS. However, to the extent that we engage in such activities through a TRS, the income associated with such activities may be subject to a corporate income tax.We also will not be able to use secured financing structures that would create taxable mortgage pools, other than in a TRS.69Table of ContentsWe may recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income, which we would be required to distribute to stockholders, in a year in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP principles or other economic measures.We may recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income in years in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP or other economic measures as a result of the differences between U.S. GAAP and tax accounting methods. For example, we may recognize substantial amounts of COD income for federal income tax purposes (but not for U.S. GAAP purposes) due to discount repurchases of our liabilities, which could cause our REIT taxable income to exceed our U.S. GAAP income. Additionally, we may deduct our capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains and not against our ordinary income, in computing our REIT taxable income for a given taxable year. Finally, certain of our assets and liabilities are marked-to-market for U.S. GAAP purposes but not for tax purposes, which could result in losses for U.S. GAAP purposes that are not recognized in computing our REIT taxable income. Consequently, we could recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income and would be required to distribute such income to stockholders in a year in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP or other economic measures.We may distribute our common stock in a taxable distribution, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such distributions, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock.We may make taxable distributions that are payable in cash and common stock. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as taxable distributions that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. In addition, the IRS issued a revenue procedure creating a temporary safe harbor that authorized publicly traded REITs to make elective cash/stock distributions, but that temporary safe harbor has expired. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable distributions payable in cash and common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of the dividend, which is treated as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash distributions received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount recorded in earnings with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our foreign TRSs.We have elected to treat several Cayman Islands companies, including issuers in CDO transactions, as TRSs. We will likely be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our investment in the foreign TRSs. Income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations are technically neither actual dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of qualifying income for the 95% gross income test. However, the IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs holding that income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations would be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Private letter rulings may be relied upon only by the taxpayers to whom they are issued and the IRS may revoke a private letter ruling. Based on those private letter rulings and advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, no assurance can be provided that the IRS would not successfully challenge our treatment of such income as qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.If our foreign TRSs are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and that they would have available to pay their creditors.There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS succeeded in challenging that tax treatment, it would greatly reduce the amount that those foreign TRSs would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us.70Table of ContentsThe stock ownership restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.To qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock.Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person, including entities, may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of stock of any class or series or more than 9.8% in value or number (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. The board may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Despite these restrictions, it is possible that there will be five or fewer individuals who own more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares, which could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT.These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders.If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of our tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders and stockholders with net operating losses will likely increase.In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, as defined in Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as UBTI to a tax-exempt entity under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. A foreign stockholder would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their net operating losses.Although the law is not entirely clear, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income equal to the percentage of our stock held in record name by “disqualified organizations” (generally tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income). To the extent that our stock owned by “disqualified organizations” is held in street name by a broker-dealer or other nominee, the broker-dealer or nominee would be liable for a tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of the “disqualified organizations.” A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are “disqualified organizations.”Excess inclusion income could result if a REIT held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, excess inclusion income also may be generated if a REIT issues liabilities with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments of these liabilities bear a relationship to the payments that the REIT received on mortgage loans or mortgage‑backed securities securing those liabilities. In May 2011, we adopted a policy that we would not acquire any assets or enter into any financing transactions that will produce excess inclusion income for stockholders. We also projected that our existing assets and financing transactions would not produce excess inclusion income for stockholders in 2011 or any future year. Accordingly, we expect that no portion of our dividends will constitute excess inclusion income. However, we could be wrong in our analysis of historic or new investments or we could affirmatively determine to modify our excess inclusion income policy in the future. If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders, stockholders with net operating losses, regulated investment companies and other pass-through entities whose record name owners are disqualified organizations and brokers-dealers and other nominees who hold stock on behalf of disqualified organizations will very likely increase.Our qualification as a REIT could be jeopardized as a result of our interest in joint ventures or investment funds. We currently own, and intend to continue to acquire, limited partner or non-managing member interests in partnerships and limited liability companies that are joint ventures or investment funds. If a partnership or limited liability company in which we own an interest takes or expects to take actions that could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT or require us to pay tax, we may be forced to dispose of our interest in such entity. In addition, it is possible that a partnership or limited liability company could take an action which could cause us to fail a REIT gross income or asset test, and that we would not become aware of such action in time to dispose of our interest in the partnership or limited liability company or take other corrective action on a 71Table of Contentstimely basis. In that case, we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT unless we are able to qualify for a statutory REIT “savings” provision, which may require us to pay a significant penalty tax to maintain our REIT qualification.REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction or net capital gain for this purpose) in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. We intend to make distributions to stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities, which may delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and may reduce stockholders’ overall return.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets and the amounts we distribute to stockholders. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits and the value of a stockholders’ investment.Distributions paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to other corporate distributions. The maximum tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid by corporations to individuals is 20%. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal ordinary income rate applicable to the individual recipient (subject to a maximum rate of 39.6%), rather than the preferential rate applicable to qualified dividends. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause potential investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay qualified distributions, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.We adopted a policy that we do not currently intend to generate excess inclusion income; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to avoid generating excess inclusion income, which could cause our common stock to become ineligible for inclusion in the Russell indices.In May 2012, we reported that we changed our policy regarding the generation of excess inclusion income, which generally passes through to our tax-exempt stockholders as UBTI. Pursuant to this new policy, we do not intend to acquire any assets or enter into any financing transactions that will produce excess inclusion income for stockholders. We also projected that our existing assets and financing transactions would not generate excess inclusion income in 2012 or any future year. This policy change allowed our common stock to continue to be eligible for inclusion in the Russell indices, such as the Russell 2000 Index. Russell had indicated that it would remove from eligibility any security that has historically generated UBTI and where the issuer has not taken steps to prevent the future generation of such income. As a result of this policy, we may forgo investment opportunities that we would otherwise have considered to be attractive. Furthermore, we could be wrong in our analysis of historic or new investments or we could affirmatively determine to modify the policy in the future, thereby generating excess inclusion income, and, consequently, UBTI, for tax-exempt stockholders. If that is the case, certain of stockholders could suffer unanticipated adverse tax consequences. Furthermore, in such an event, our common stock could become ineligible for inclusion in the Russell indices, which could adversely affect demand for our common stock and its price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.