Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business Guerrilla Activity in Colombia Has Disrupted and Delayed, and Could Continue to Disrupt or Delay, Our Operations and We Are Concerned About Safeguarding Our Operations and Personnel in Colombia.During 2012 and 2013, guerrilla activity in Colombia increased significantly. This increased activity creates a greater risk for our operations and our employees and our mitigation activities may not be adequate to alleviate the risks arising from such guerrilla activity.For over 40 years, the Colombian government has been engaged in a civil war with two main Marxist guerrilla groups: the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ("FARC") and the National Liberation Army ("ELN"). Both of these groups have been designated as terrorist organizations by the United States and the European Union. Another threat comes from criminal gangs formed from the former members of the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia militia, a paramilitary group that originally sprouted up to combat FARC and ELN, which the Colombian government successfully dissolved.We operate principally in the Putumayo Basin in Colombia, and have properties in other basins, including the Catatumbo, Cauca, Llanos, Sinu-San Jacinto, Middle Magdalena and Lower Magdalena Basins. The Putumayo and Catatumbo regions have been the breeding place of guerrilla activity. Pipelines have been primary targets because such pipelines cannot be adequately secured due to the sheer length of such pipelines and the remoteness of the areas in which the pipelines are laid. The Ecopetrol-operated Trans-Andean oil pipeline (the "OTA pipeline”) which transports oil from the Putumayo region and upon which we materially rely has been targeted by these guerrilla groups. Starting in 2008, the OTA pipeline experienced outages of various lengths. In 2012, the OTA pipeline was shutdown for over 162 days and the shutdown had a material adverse effect on our deliveries to Ecopetrol and our financial performance for 2012. Recently we have experienced outages from October 2012 through February 2014. In 2013, the OTA pipeline was shutdown for approximately 229 days. We have employed mitigation strategies as discussed in the risk "We May Encounter Difficulties Storing and Transporting Our Production, Which Could Cause a Decrease in Our Production or an Increase in Our Expenses" later in this section. Such disruptions may continue indefinitely and could harm our business.In 2013, we experienced damage to two of our facilities in the amount of approximately $0.8 million. Production of about 330 BOPD was shut in for 39 days. No long-term environmental damage or injury to personnel occurred in either incident. Continuing attempts by the Colombian government to reduce or prevent guerrilla activity may not be successful and guerrilla activity may continue to disrupt our operations in the future. Our efforts to increase security measures may not be successful and there can also be no assurance that we can maintain the safety of our or our contractors' field personnel and Bogota head office personnel or operations in Colombia or that this violence will not continue to adversely affect our operations in the future and cause significant loss.35Our Lack of Diversification Will Increase the Risk of an Investment in Our Common Stock. Our business focuses on the oil and gas industry in a limited number of properties in Colombia, Argentina, Peru, and Brazil. Most of our production is in one basin in Colombia and two basins in Argentina. As a result, we lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. Accordingly, factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate, including the geographic remoteness of our operations and weather conditions, will likely impact us more acutely than if our business was more diversified. In particular, most of our production is from the Putumayo Basin in Colombia, and we depend on the OTA pipeline and alternative transportation arrangements to transport our oil to market. Cash flow from these sales funds a large part of our business. Disruptions to this pipeline, as described in the risk "We May Encounter Difficulties Storing and Transporting Our Production, Which Could Cause a Decrease in Our Production or an Increase in Our Expenses" could harm our business in Colombia and other countries. We May Encounter Difficulties Storing and Transporting Our Production, Which Could Cause a Decrease in Our Production or an Increase in Our Expenses. To sell the oil and natural gas that we are able to produce, we have to make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. This could be particularly problematic to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from shipping and/or pipeline facilities. In certain areas, we may be required to rely on only one gathering system, trucking company or pipeline, and, if so, our ability to market our production would be subject to their reliability and operations. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and gas production, and may increase our expenses. Furthermore, future instability in one or more of the countries in which we operate, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in those countries, labor disputes or actions taken by the international community may impair the distribution of oil and/or natural gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. The majority of our oil in Colombia is contracted for delivery to a single pipeline owned by CENIT S.A. ("CENIT"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ecopetrol, and operated by Ecopetrol. Sales of oil have been and could continue to be disrupted by damage to this pipeline or displaced by Ecopetrol’s use of the pipeline itself. Under our transportation contract with CENIT, the delivery point for our oil is at the end of the pipeline. This creates a risk of loss of oil due to sabotage by guerrillas or theft from the pipeline which may result in reduced revenues and increased clean-up or third party costs. We have attempted to mitigate the risk of increased costs with insurance and are investigating potential ways to mitigate and reduce revenue risk. CENIT and Ecopetrol maintain responsibility for clean-up of any spilled oil and for pipeline repair. Problems with these pipelines can cause interruptions to our producing activities if they are for a long enough duration that our storage facilities become full. For example, we experienced disruptions in transportation on this pipeline in March and April of 2008, June, July and August of 2009, June, August, and September 2010, February 2011, February to August of 2012 and October 2012 to February 2014 as a result of sabotage by guerrillas. In addition, there is competition for space in these pipelines, and additional discoveries in our area of operations by other companies could decrease the pipeline capacity available to us. Trucking is an alternative to transportation by pipeline; however, it is generally more expensive and carries higher safety risks for us, our employees and the public. Recent alternative transportation arrangements in Colombia allowed us to deliver our full production during 2013; however, these deliveries result in reduced realized prices compared to the Ecopetrol operated OTA pipeline deliveries and are not necessarily sustainable. When disruptions are of a long enough duration, our sales volumes may be lower than normal, which will cause our cash flow to be lower than normal, and if our storage facilities become full, we can be forced to reduce production.As some of our oil production in Argentina is trucked to a local refinery, sales of oil in the Noroeste Basin can be delayed by adverse weather and road conditions, particularly during the months November through February when the area is subject to periods of heavy rain and flooding. While storage facilities are designed to accommodate ordinary disruptions without curtailing production, delayed sales will delay revenues and may adversely impact our working capital position in Argentina. Furthermore, a prolonged disruption in oil deliveries could exceed storage capacities and shut-in production, which could have a negative impact on future production capability. 36Our Oil Sales Will Depend on a Relatively Small Group of Customers, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results. Oil sales in Colombia are mainly to Ecopetrol and, in 2013, to another customer. While oil prices in Colombia are related to international market prices, lack of competition and reliance on a limited number of customers for sales of oil may diminish prices and depress our financial results. The entire Argentina domestic refining market is small and export opportunities are limited by available infrastructure. As a result, our oil and gas sales in Argentina will depend on a relatively small group of customers, and currently, on two significant customers. The lack of competition in this market could result in unfavorable sales terms which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial results. Currently, all operators in Argentina are operating without long-term sales contracts. We cannot provide any certainty as to when the situation will be resolved or what the final outcome will be. In Brazil, there are a number of potential customers for our oil, and we are working to establish relationships with as many as possible to ensure a stable market for our oil. Currently, essentially all of our production in Brazil is sold to Petróleo Brasileiro S.A (“Petrobras”). Petrobras’ refinery in the area of our operations has previously had some technical difficulties which have restricted its ability to receive deliveries. Our second option in the area is at full capacity. This could mean that we cannot produce to full capacity in the area because of restrictions in being able to deliver our oil. Our Business is Subject to Local Legal, Political and Economic Factors Which Are Beyond Our Control, Which Could Impair Our Ability to Expand Our Operations or Operate Profitably. We operate our business in Colombia, Argentina, Peru, and Brazil, and may eventually expand to other countries. Exploration and production operations in foreign countries are subject to legal, political and economic uncertainties, including terrorism, military repression, social unrest, strikes by local or national labor groups, interference with private contract rights (such as privatization), extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, high rates of inflation, exchange controls, changes in tax rates, changes in laws or policies affecting environmental issues (including land use and water use), workplace safety, foreign investment, foreign trade, investment or taxation, as well as restrictions imposed on the oil and natural gas industry, such as restrictions on production, price controls and export controls. For example, starting on November 21, 2008, we were forced to reduce production in Colombia on a gradual basis, culminating on December 11, 2008, when we suspended all production from the Santana, Guayuyaco and Chaza Blocks in the Putumayo Basin. This temporary suspension of production operations was the result of a declaration of a state of emergency and force majeure by Ecopetrol due to a general strike in the region. In January 2009, the situation was resolved and we were able to resume production and sales shipments. Starting in 2010, there was an increased presence of illegitimate unionization activities in the Putumayo Basin by the Sindicato de Trabajadores Petroleros del Putumayo, which disrupted our operations from time to time and may do so in the future. During 2011, 2012 and 2013, Argentina has experienced increased union activity and this may create disruptions in our Argentina operations in the future. During 2012 and 2013, we have also experienced related issues with landowners blocking access to our fields in Argentina. Our production in Brazil was shut in for three weeks in October 2013 as a result of a strike by employees of Petrobras which affected the crude oil receiving terminal we use in the Recôncavo Basin. We do not know how long such labor action will last, and if it lasts a significant amount of time, it may effect our ability to meet our production targets. South America has a history of political and economic instability. This instability could result in new governments or the adoption of new policies, laws or regulations that might assume a substantially more hostile attitude toward foreign investment, including the imposition of additional taxes. In an extreme case, such a change could result in termination of contract rights and expropriation of foreign-owned assets. Any changes in oil and gas or investment regulations and policies or a shift in political attitudes in Argentina, Colombia, Peru or Brazil or other countries in which we intend to operate are beyond our control and may significantly hamper our ability to expand our operations or operate our business at a profit. Changes in laws in the jurisdiction in which we operate or expand into with the effect of favoring local enterprises, and changes in political views regarding the exploitation of natural resources and economic pressures, may make it more difficult for us to negotiate agreements on favorable terms, obtain required licenses, comply with regulations or effectively adapt to adverse economic changes, such as increased taxes, higher costs, inflationary pressure and currency fluctuations. In certain jurisdictions the commitment of local business people, government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be more uncertain, creating particular concerns with respect to licenses and agreements for business. These licenses and agreements may be susceptible to revision or cancellation and legal redress may be uncertain or delayed. Property right transfers, joint ventures, licenses, license applications or other legal arrangements pursuant to which we operate may be adversely affected by the actions of government authorities and the effectiveness of and enforcement of our rights under such arrangements in these jurisdictions may be impaired.37In July 2012, the Argentina government mandated the creation of an oil planning commission that will set national energy goals and have the power to review private oil companies' investment plans. Private companies must submit an annual investment plan by September 30 of each year. The committee will have the power to approve or reject the annual investment plan. This decree is new and many details are yet to be announced. However, we believe there is a risk that this may cause delays in our operations in Argentina, or cause changes to our investment plans that could negatively affect our business in Argentina or the rest of our operations.Additionally in Argentina, some provincial regulations are changing, introducing new and/or increased royalties and fees associated with extensions of concession agreements. These royalties and fees represent increased costs for the affected concessions, specifically our Rio Negro Province concession, which could result in a decreased rate of return from this asset and could negatively affect our business in Argentina. Almost All of Our Cash and Cash Equivalents is Held Outside of Canada and the United States, and if We Determine to, or Are Required to, Repatriate These Funds, We Could be Subject to Significant Taxes.At December 31, 2013, 97% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by subsidiaries and partnerships outside of Canada and the United States. Subsequent to year-end, some of this cash was used to pay amounts owing to the head office, however, this cash was generally not available to fund domestic or head office operations unless funds are repatriated. At this time, we do not intend to repatriate funds, but if we did, we might have to accrue and pay taxes in certain jurisdictions on the distribution of accumulated earnings.We Have an Aggressive Business Plan, and if We do not Have the Resources to Execute on Our Business Plan, We May Be Required to Curtail Our Operations. Our capital program for 2014 calls for approximately $467 million to fund our exploration and development, which we intend to fund through existing cash on hand and cash flows from operations at current production and commodity price levels. Funding this program relies in part on oil prices remaining high and other factors to generate sufficient cash flow. If we are not able to generate the sales which, together with our current cash resources, are sufficient to fund our capital program, we will not be able to efficiently execute our business plan which would cause us to decrease our exploration and development, which could harm our business outlook, investor confidence and our share price. Strategic and Business Relationships Upon Which We May Rely Are Subject to Change, Which May Diminish Our Ability to Conduct Our Operations. Our ability to successfully bid on and acquire additional properties, to discover reserves, to participate in drilling opportunities and to identify and enter into commercial arrangements will depend on developing and maintaining effective working relationships with industry participants and on our ability to select and evaluate suitable partners and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These relationships are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow.To develop our business, we endeavor to use the business relationships of our management and Board of Directors to enter into strategic and business relationships, which may take the form of joint ventures with other parties or with local government bodies, or contractual arrangements with other oil and gas companies, including those that supply equipment and other resources that we will use in our business. We also have an active business development program to develop those relationships and foster new relationships. We may not be able to establish these business relationships, or if established, we may choose the wrong partner or we may not be able to maintain them. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to take to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships. If we fail to make the cash calls required by our joint venture partners in the joint ventures we do not operate, we may be required to forfeit our interests in these joint ventures. If our strategic relationships are not established or maintained, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our operations. In addition, in cases where we are the operator, our partners may not be able to fulfill their obligations, which would require us to either take on their obligations in addition to our own, or possibly forfeit our rights to the area involved in the joint venture. In addition, despite our partner’s failure to fulfill its obligations, if we elect to terminate such relationship, we may be involved in litigation with such partners or may be required to pay amounts in settlement to avoid litigation despite such partner’s failure to perform. Alternatively, our partners may be able to fulfill their obligations, but will not agree with our proposals as operator of the property. In this case there could be disagreements between joint venture partners that could be costly in terms of dollars, time, deterioration of the partner relationship, and/or our reputation as a reputable operator. These joint venture partners may not comply with their responsibilities or may engage in conduct that could result in liability to us.38 In cases where we are not the operator of the joint venture, the success of the projects held under these joint ventures is substantially dependent on our joint venture partners. The operator is responsible for day-to-day operations, safety, environmental compliance and relationships with government and vendors. We have various work obligations on our blocks that must be fulfilled or we could face penalties, or lose our rights to those blocks if we do not fulfill our work obligations. Failure to fulfill obligations in one block can also have implications on the ability to operate other blocks in the country ranging from delays in government process and procedure to loss of rights in other blocks or in the country as a whole. Failure to meet obligations in one particular country may also have an impact on our ability to operate in others. Disputes or Uncertainties May Arise in Relation to Our Royalty Obligations Our production is subject to royalty obligations which may be prescribed by government regulation or by contract. These royalty obligations may be subject to changes in interpretation as business circumstances change. As discussed above (see “Royalties”, above, in Item 1), our production from the Costayaco Exploitation Area is subject to the HPR royalty, which applies when cumulative gross production from an Exploitation Area is greater than five MMbbl. The HPR royalty is calculated on the difference between a trigger price defined in the Chaza Contract and the sales price. The ANH has interpreted the Chaza Contract as requiring that the HPR royalty must be paid with respect to all production from the Moqueta Exploitation Area and initiated a noncompliance procedure under the Chaza Contract, which we contested because the Moqueta Exploitation Area and the Costayaco Exploitation Area are separate Exploitation Areas. ANH did not proceed with that noncompliance procedure. We also believe that the evidence shows that the Costayaco and Moqueta fields are two clearly separate and independent hydrocarbon accumulations. Therefore, it is our view that, pursuant to the terms of the Chaza Contract, the HPR royalty is only to be paid with respect to production from the Moqueta Exploitation Area when the accumulated oil production from that Exploitation Area exceeds five MMbbl. Discussions with the ANH have not resolved this issue and we have initiated the dispute resolution process under the Chaza Contract and filed an arbitration claim seeking a decision that the HPR royalty is not payable until production from the Moqueta Exploitation Area exceeds five MMbbl. The ANH has filed a response to the claim seeking a declaration that its interpretation is correct and a counterclaim seeking, amongst other remedies, declarations that we breached the Chaza Contract by not paying the disputed HPR royalty, that the amount of the alleged HPR royalty that is payable, and that the Chaza Contract be terminated. As at December 31, 2013, total cumulative production from the Moqueta Exploitation Area was 2.3 MMbbl. The estimated compensation which would be payable on cumulative production to that date if the ANH is successful in the arbitration is $38.4 million. At this time no amount has been accrued in the financial statements nor deducted from our reserves for the disputed HPR royalty as we do not consider it probable that a loss will be incurred.Additionally, the ANH and Gran Tierra are engaged in discussions regarding the interpretation of whether certain transportation and related costs are eligible to be deducted in the calculation of the HPR royalty. Discussions with the ANH are ongoing. Based on our understanding of the ANH's position, the estimated compensation which would be payable if the ANH’s interpretation is correct could be up to $28.9 million as at December 31, 2013. At this time no amount has been accrued in the financial statements as Gran Tierra does not consider it probable that a loss will be incurred.In Argentina, some provincial regulations are changing, introducing new and/or increased royalties and fees associated with extensions of concession agreements. These royalties and fees represent increased costs for the affected concessions, specifically our Rio Negro Province concessions, which could result in a decreased rate of return from these assets and could negatively affect our business in Argentina. Negative Political and Regulatory Developments in Argentina May Negatively Affect Our Operations. The oil and natural gas industry in Argentina is subject to extensive regulation including land tenure, exploration, development, production, refining, transportation, and marketing, imposed by legislation enacted by various levels of government and, with respect to pricing and taxation of oil and natural gas, by agreements among the federal and provincial governments, all of which are subject to change and could have a material impact on our business in Argentina. The Federal Government of Argentina has implemented controls for domestic fuel prices and has placed a tax on oil and natural gas exports. In October 2010, ENARGAS issued Regulation I-1410 aiming at securing the supply of natural gas to residential consumers and small industry given the decline in gas production and the expected growing demand for gas. The regulation includes all the procedures created by the authorities since 2004 (restrictions of exports, deviation of gas sales, to residential consumption) 39and gives ENARGAS power to control gas marketing in order to assure the supply of gas to residential consumers and small industry. Any future regulations that limit the amount of oil and gas that we could sell or any regulations that limit price increases in Argentina and elsewhere could severely limit the amount of our revenue and affect our results of operations. Currently most oil and gas producers in Argentina are operating without sales contracts. In 2008, a new withholding tax regime for exports was introduced without specific guidance as to its application. The domestic price was regulated in a similar way, so that both exported and domestically sold products were priced the same. Producers and refiners of oil in Argentina were unable to determine an agreed sales price for oil deliveries to refineries. In our case, the refineries’ price offered to oil producers reflects their price received, less taxes and operating costs and their usual mark up. Along with most other oil producers in Argentina, we are continuing negotiating sales on a spot price basis with refiners and the price is negotiated on a month by month basis. The Provincial governments have also been hurt by these changes as their effective royalty and turnover tax takes have been reduced and capital investment in oilfields has declined, and so they are lobbying to change the situation. The government introduced the Petro Plus and Gas Plus programs in 2009, which grant higher prices to producers that sell production from new reserves. This positive step forward will hopefully lead to further opening of price regulation in Argentina.The government of Argentina has been active in the oil and gas business. On April 16, 2012, the government announced their intention to acquire a 51% interest in YPF S.A. ("YPF") from Repsol S.A. (Repsol S.A. holds 56.7% of YPF), and retain 51% control for the Federal Government and distribute 49% of the shares to Argentina provinces. During 2012, the Argentina government took control of YPF's operations and signed deals with Chevron Corporation and others for developing shale resources. Repsol S.A. has filed international complaints and US lawsuits regarding the takeover and subsequent deals. Prior to this announcement, various provincial governments announced contract cancellations effecting YPF, Petrobras Argentina S.A., and Azabache Energy Inc., among others. The reason cited for the contract cancellations was lack of activity in the areas in question. We have active programs in all producing areas, which we believe helps mitigate our risk. However, despite the fact that all employees in Argentina are Argentines employed by a locally incorporated company, we also operate through two branches of foreign entities, and are viewed as a foreign company and could therefore face increased risk.In July 2012, the Argentina government mandated the creation of an oil planning commission that will set national energy goals and have the power to review private oil companies' investment plans. The committee will have the power to approve or reject annual investment plans that must be submitted by private companies by September 30 of each year. This decree is new and many details are yet to be announced. However, we believe there is a risk that this may cause delays in our operations in Argentina, or cause changes to our investment plans that could negatively effect our business in Argentina or the rest of our operations.Additionally in Argentina some provincial regulations are changing, which are introducing new royalties and fees associated with extensions of concession agreements. These royalties and fees represent increased costs for the affected concessions, specifically our Rio Negro Province concession, which could result in decreased rates of returns from this asset. Our Business May Suffer if We do not Attract and Retain Talented Personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our executive team and other personnel in conducting our business. The loss of any of these individuals or our inability to attract suitably qualified individuals to replace any of them could materially adversely impact our business. We are experiencing difficulties in finding and retaining suitably qualified staff in certain jurisdictions, particularly in Brazil and Peru, where experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. Our success depends on the ability of our management and employees to interpret market and geological data successfully and to interpret and respond to economic, market and other business conditions to locate and adopt appropriate investment opportunities, monitor such investments and ultimately, if required, successfully divest such investments. Further, our key personnel may not continue their association or employment with us and we may not be able to find replacement personnel with comparable skills. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business may be adversely affected.Competition in Obtaining Rights to Explore and Develop Oil and Gas Reserves and to Market Our Production May Impair Our Business. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. Other oil and gas companies will compete with us by bidding for exploration and production licenses and other properties and services we will need to operate our business in the countries in which we 40expect to operate. Additionally, other companies engaged in our line of business may compete with us from time to time in obtaining capital from investors. Competitors include larger companies, which, in particular, may have access to greater resources than us, may be more successful in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and may conduct their own refining and petroleum marketing operations, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. In the event that we do not succeed in negotiating additional property acquisitions, our future prospects will likely be substantially limited, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate.Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations May Affect Our Financial Results. We expect to sell our oil and natural gas production under agreements that will be denominated in U.S. dollars. Many of the operational and other expenses we incur will be paid in the local currency of the country where we perform our operations. Our income taxes in Colombia are paid in Colombian pesos. Our production in Argentina is primarily invoiced in U.S. dollars, but payment is made in Argentina pesos, at the then current exchange rate. As a result, we are exposed to translation risk when local currency financial statements are translated to U.S. dollars, our functional currency. Since September 1, 2005, exchange rates between the Colombian peso and U.S. dollar have varied between 1,648 pesos to one U.S. dollar to 2,632 pesos to one U.S. dollar, a fluctuation of approximately 60%. Since we began operating in Argentina (September 1, 2005), the rate of exchange between the Argentina peso and U.S. dollar has varied between 3.05 pesos to one U.S. dollar to 8.02 pesos to the U.S. dollar, a fluctuation of approximately 162%. Production in Brazil is invoiced and paid in Brazilian Reals. Since September 1, 2005, the exchange rate of the Brazilian Real has varied between 1.56 Reals to one U.S. dollar to 2.45 Reals to the U.S. dollar, a variance of 57%. Current and deferred tax liabilities in Colombia are denominated in Colombian pesos and the weakening of 9% in the Colombian Peso against the U.S. dollar in the year ended December 31, 2013, resulted in a foreign exchange gain. Maintaining Good Community Relationships and Being a Good Corporate Citizen May be Costly and Difficult to Manage. Our operations have a significant effect on the areas in which we operate. To enjoy the confidence of local populations and the local governments, we must invest in the communities where were operate. In many cases, these communities are impoverished and lack many resources taken for granted in North America. The opportunities for investment are large, many and varied; however, we must be careful to invest carefully in projects that will truly benefit these areas. Improper management of these investments and relationships could lead to a delay in operations, loss of license or major impact to our reputation in these communities, which could adversely affect our business. Our Operations Involve Substantial Costs and Are Subject to Certain Risks Because the Oil and Gas Industries in the Countries in Which We Operate Are Less Developed. The oil and gas industry in South America is not as efficient or developed as the oil and gas industry in North America. As a result, our exploration and development activities may take longer to complete and may be more expensive than similar operations in North America. The availability of technical expertise, specific equipment and supplies may be more limited than in North America. We expect that such factors will subject our international operations to economic and operating risks that may not be experienced in North American operations. Further, we operate in remote areas and may rely on helicopter, boats or other transport methods. Some of these transport methods may result in increased levels of risk and could lead to operational delays, serious injury or loss of life and could have a significant impact on our reputation.Exchange Controls and New Taxes Could Materially Affect Our Ability to Fund Our Operations and Realize Profits from Our Foreign Operations. Foreign operations may require funding if their cash requirements exceed operating cash flow. To the extent that funding is required, there may be exchange controls limiting such funding or adverse tax consequences associated with such funding. In addition, taxes and exchange controls may affect the dividends that we receive from foreign subsidiaries.The governments in Brazil and Argentina require us to register funds that enter and exit the country with the central bank in each country. In Brazil, Argentina and Colombia, all transactions must be carried out in the local currency of the country. Exchange controls may prevent us from transferring funds abroad. For example, the Argentina government has imposed a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures that include restrictions on the free disposition of funds deposited with banks and tight restrictions on transferring funds abroad, with certain exceptions for transfers related to foreign trade and other authorized transactions approved by the Argentina Central Bank. The Central Bank may require prior authorization and may or may not grant such authorization for our Argentina subsidiaries to make dividend or loan payments to us and there may 41be a tax imposed with respect to the expatriation of such proceeds. During the three months ending June 30, 2013, we repatriated $11.1 million to a Canadian subsidiary from one of our Argentina subsidiaries through loan repayments, authorized by the Argentina Central Bank. These were repayments of loan principal and as such had no withholding tax applied. In Colombia, we participate in a special exchange regime, which allows us to receive revenue in U. S. dollars offshore. This regime gives us flexibility to determine the currency in which we receive our revenues, rather than to be restricted to Colombian pesos if received in Colombia, but also limits the ways in which we are able to fund our operations in Colombia. As such, this could cause us to employ funding strategies for our Colombian operations that are not as tax efficient as might otherwise be if we did not participate in the special exchange regime. Tax law changes can impact the way we provide cross-border funding to our operating subsidiaries, as well as impact the after tax profits available for expatriation. For example, beginning in 2013, the Colombian rate of tax applicable to ordinary income derived by our Colombian operations has changed for the 3-year period 2013-2015 from 33% to 34%. Also in Colombia, beginning in 2013, a new definition of dividends is applied for branches. In this case, the transfer of branch profits are considered as dividends subject to a 25% tax if those dividends have not already been subject to Colombian tax. We do not currently expect that this change in Colombian law will have a material consequence.Negative Political Developments in Colombia May Negatively Affect Our Proposed Operations. Adverse political incidents may generate social unrest which could impact our operations and oil deliveries in Colombia. Peace process negotiations between the government and FARC may not generate the intended outcome for both parties. With the use of arms, and other methods of influence, the FARC may place pressure on organizations and communities that are in areas of operations of the company. These communities, and affiliated organizations, can generate protests to attract the attention of government. Protests or other demonstrations may establish blockades and could cause interruptions of operations, deliveries, and other disruptions to our work programs in the affected area.Negative Political Developments in Peru May Negatively Affect our Proposed Operations. Peru held a national election in June 2011 after which a new political regime was elected, led by the left-populist candidate, Ollante Humala, who was elected the President. Mr. Humala has noted that the past decade prioritized the strengthening of democracy with economic growth, while the new government will enhance social inclusion to benefit the neediest. This political regime may adopt new policies, laws and regulations that are more hostile toward foreign investment which may result in the imposition of additional taxes, the adoption of regulations that limit price increases, termination of contract rights, or the expropriation of foreign-owned assets. Such actions by the elected political regime could limit the amount of our future revenue in that country and affect our results of operations. The United States Government May Impose Economic or Trade Sanctions on Colombia That Could Result In a Significant Loss to Us. Colombia is among several nations whose eligibility to receive foreign aid from the United States is dependent on its progress in stemming the production and transit of illegal drugs, which is subject to an annual review by the President of the United States. Although Colombia is currently eligible for such aid, Colombia may not remain eligible in the future. A finding by the President that Colombia has failed demonstrably to meet its obligations under international counternarcotics agreements may result in any of the following:•all bilateral aid, except anti-narcotics and humanitarian aid, would be suspended;•the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation would not approve financing for new projects in Colombia;•United States representatives at multilateral lending institutions would be required to vote against all loan requests from Colombia, although such votes would not constitute vetoes; and•the President of the United States and Congress would retain the right to apply future trade sanctions. Each of these consequences could result in adverse economic consequences in Colombia and could further heighten the political and economic risks associated with our operations there. Any changes in the holders of significant government offices could have adverse consequences on our relationship with ANH and Ecopetrol and the Colombian government’s ability to control guerrilla activities and could exacerbate the factors relating to our foreign operations. Any sanctions imposed on 42Colombia by the United States government could threaten our ability to obtain necessary financing to develop the Colombian properties or cause Colombia to retaliate against us, including by nationalizing our Colombian assets. Accordingly, the imposition of the foregoing economic and trade sanctions on Colombia would likely result in a substantial loss and a decrease in the price of shares of our Common Stock. The United States may impose sanctions on Colombia in the future, and we cannot predict the effect in Colombia that these sanctions might cause.We May not be Able to Effectively Manage Our Growth, Which May Harm Our Profitability. Our strategy envisions continually expanding our business, both organically and through acquisition of other properties and companies. If we fail to effectively manage our growth or integrate successfully our acquisitions, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. Integration efforts place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new or acquired employees. We may not be able to: •expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner;•allocate our human resources optimally;•identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or•incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. If we are unable to manage our growth and our operations our financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiencies, which could diminish our profitability.We May be Unable to Obtain Additional Capital That We Will Require to Implement Our Business Plan, Which Could Restrict Our Ability to Grow. We expect that our existing cash resources and the availability to draw cash under our credit agreement will be sufficient to fund our currently planned activities. We may require additional capital to expand our exploration and development programs to additional properties. We may be unable to obtain additional capital required. When we require additional capital, we plan to pursue sources of capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be successful in locating suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not obtain the capital we require by other means. If we do succeed in raising additional capital, future financings may be dilutive to our shareholders, as we could issue additional shares of Common Stock or other equity to investors. In addition, debt and other mezzanine financing may involve a pledge of assets and may be senior to interests of equity holders. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertibles and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial results. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by factors such as the capital markets (both generally and in the oil and gas industry in particular), the location of our oil and natural gas properties in South America, prices of oil and natural gas on the commodities markets (which will impact the amount of asset-based financing available to us), and the loss of key management. Further, if oil and/or natural gas prices on the commodities markets decrease, then our revenues will likely decrease, and such decreased revenues may increase our requirements for capital. Some of the contractual arrangements governing our exploration activity may require us to commit to certain capital expenditures, and we may lose our contract rights if we do not have the required capital to fulfill these commitments. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our cash flow from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our activities), we may be required to curtail our operations. 43Guerrilla Activity in Peru Could Disrupt or Delay Our Operations and We Are Concerned About Safeguarding Our Operations and Personnel in Peru. The Shining Path Guerilla group has been active in Peru since the early 1980’s and, at one point, was active throughout the country. Recently, the group’s activity has been confined to small areas of Peru and operations have been hampered by the capture of many high profile leaders and membership has fallen dramatically. During April 2012, 30 people working on the Camisea natural gas project in central Peru were kidnapped. Most of the workers were released after a short period of time, and the remainder were freed within a few days. The kidnapping was attributed to the Shining Path Guerilla group. Camisea is a very large, high profile project in an area where the group continues to be active. Our operations in Peru are in a different region, with no known activity by the group. Other groups may be active in other areas of the country and possibly our operational areas. We are monitoring the situation and increasing security measures as required. Nevertheless, we are concerned about the security of our operations in Peru and mitigate our risks through good relationships with local communities and stakeholders as well as strong security procedures.We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a Violation of Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit corporations and individuals, including us and our employees, from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials and certain other individuals and organizations for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or engaging in certain accounting practices. We do business and may do future business in countries in which we may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, international organizations, or private entities. As a result, we face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by employees, contractors and agents of ours or our subsidiaries or affiliates, even though these parties are not always subject to our control or direction. It is our policy to implement compliance procedures to prohibit these practices. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective or may not be followed, and our employees, contractors, agents, and partners may engage in illegal conduct for which we might be held responsible. Also, the FCPA contains certain accounting standards which obligate us to maintain accurate and complete books and records and a system of effective internal controls. These accounting provisions are very broad and a violation can occur even if there is no evidence of a bribe. The U.S. government is actively investigating and enforcing the FCPA and similar laws against companies and individuals. A violation of any of these laws, even if prohibited by our policies, may result in criminal or civil sanctions or other penalties (including profit disgorgement), could disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation, be expensive to investigate and defend, and impair our ability to do business. A number of countries, including Canada, have strengthened their anti-corruption legislation. These laws prohibit both domestic and international bribery. There is a risk that an act of corruption can result in a violation of not only the FCPA, but also the laws of several other countries.Our Business Could be Negatively Impacted by Security Threats, Including Cybersecurity Threats as Well as Other Disasters, and Related Disruptions. Our business processes depend on the availability, capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. It is critical to our business that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure. Although we employ data encryption processes, an intrusion detection system, and other internal control procedures to assure the security of our data, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be sufficient for this purpose. The ability of the information technology function to support our business in the event of a security breach or a disaster such as fire or flood and our ability to recover key systems and information from unexpected interruptions cannot be fully tested and there is a risk that, if such an event actually occurs, we may not be able to address immediately the repercussions of the breach or disaster. In that event, key information and systems may be unavailable for a number of days or weeks, leading to our inability to conduct business or perform some business processes in a timely manner. In June 2013, the City of Calgary experienced flooding which caused power outages throughout the city. As a result, many of our key information systems were unavailable for two business days. We have implemented strategies to improve our ability to keep our systems functioning through a similar disaster.We have expended significant time and money on the security of our facilities and on our information technology infrastructure including testing of our security at our facilities and infrastructure. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error or otherwise, and as a result our data becomes available to unauthorized parties, we may lose our competitive edge in certain of our business activities and our reputation may be damaged. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are 44not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. We have had past security breaches to our infrastructure, and, although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operations or our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future. Our employees have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by us but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information through email or download malware. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through education, “spoof” and “phishing” activities remain a serious problem that may damage our information technology infrastructure.Risks Related to Our Industry Unless We Are Able to Replace Our Reserves, and Develop and Manage Oil and Gas Reserves and Production on an Economically Viable Basis, Our Reserves, Production and Cash Flows May Decline as a Result. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, our reserves and production will decline. We may not be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs. To the extent that we succeed in discovering oil and/or natural gas, reserves may not be capable of production levels we project or in sufficient quantities to be commercially viable. On a long-term basis, our viability depends on our ability to find or acquire, develop and commercially produce additional oil and gas reserves. Without the addition of reserves through exploration, acquisition or development activities, our reserves and production will decline over time as reserves are produced. Our future reserves will depend not only on our ability to develop and effectively manage then-existing properties, but also on our ability to identify and acquire additional suitable producing properties or prospects, to find markets for the oil and natural gas we develop and to effectively distribute our production into our markets. Future oil and gas exploration may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. In addition, drilling hazards or environmental damage could greatly increase the cost of operations, and various field operating conditions may adversely affect the production from successful wells. These conditions include delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-downs of connected wells resulting from extreme weather conditions, problems in storage and distribution and adverse geological and technical conditions. While we will endeavor to effectively manage these conditions, we may not be able to do so optimally, and we will not be able to eliminate them completely in any case. Therefore, these conditions could diminish our revenue and cash flow levels and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. We Are Required to Obtain Licenses and Permits to Conduct Our Business and Failure to Obtain These Licenses Could Cause Significant Delays and Expenses That Could Materially Impact Our Business. We are subject to licensing and permitting requirements relating to exploring and drilling for and development of oil and natural gas, including seismic, environmental and many other operating permits. We may not be able to obtain, sustain or renew such licenses and permits on a timely basis or at all. For example, the permitting process in Peru takes significant time, meaning that exploration and development projects have a longer cycle time to completion than they might elsewhere. In Colombia, other drilling and development projects are being delayed, most significantly our Moqueta field development, because of delays at the Ministry of the Environment and other government departments. In addition, environmental and social evaluation demands have increased in Colombia, causing permit processing to take longer than previously experienced in the areas where we operate. These delays are also significantly impacting other industry participants. Regulations and policies relating to these licenses and permits may change, be implemented in a way that we do not currently anticipate or take significantly greater time to obtain. These licenses and permits are subject to numerous requirements, including compliance with the environmental regulations of the local governments. As we are not the operator of all the joint ventures we are currently involved in, we may rely on the operator to obtain all necessary permits and licenses. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be prevented from drilling for oil and natural gas, and we could be subject to civil or criminal liability or fines. Revocation or suspension of our environmental and operating permits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, currently in Brazil, we are subject to restrictions on flaring natural gas, which have the impact of limiting our production capacity. Additionally in Brazil, the exploration phase of three of our concession agreements was due to expire on November 24, 2013. We have submitted an application to the ANP for 45extensions of the exploration phase of these concession agreements as provided for in the agreements; however, we may not be successful and loss of these agreements may impair our ability to grow our business in Brazil. Our Exploration for Oil and Natural Gas Is Risky and May Not Be Commercially Successful, Impairing Our Ability to Generate Revenues from Our Operations. Oil and natural gas exploration involves a high degree of risk. These risks are more acute in the early stages of exploration. Our exploration expenditures may not result in new discoveries of oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. It is difficult to project the costs of implementing an exploratory drilling program due to the inherent uncertainties of drilling in unknown formations, the costs associated with encountering various drilling conditions, such as over pressured zones and tools lost in the hole, and changes in drilling plans and locations as a result of prior exploratory wells or additional seismic data and interpretations thereof. If exploration costs exceed our estimates, or if our exploration efforts do not produce results which meet our expectations, our exploration efforts may not be commercially successful, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues from our operations. Our Inability to Obtain Necessary Facilities and/or Equipment Could Hamper Our Operations. Oil and natural gas exploration and development activities are dependent on the availability of drilling and related equipment, transportation, power and technical support in the particular areas where these activities will be conducted, and our access to these facilities may be limited. To the extent that we conduct our activities in remote areas, needed facilities or equipment may not be proximate to our operations, which will increase our expenses. Demand for such limited equipment and other facilities or access restrictions may affect the availability of such equipment to us and may delay exploration and development activities. The quality and reliability of necessary facilities or equipment may also be unpredictable and we may be required to make efforts to standardize our facilities, which may entail unanticipated costs and delays. Shortages and/or the unavailability of necessary equipment or other facilities will impair our activities, either by delaying our activities, increasing our costs or otherwise.Estimates of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves That We Make May be Inaccurate and Our Actual Revenues May be Lower and Our Operating Expenses May be Higher Than Our Financial Projections. We make estimates of oil and natural gas reserves, upon which we will base our financial projections. We make these reserve estimates using various assumptions, including assumptions as to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Some of these assumptions are inherently subjective, and the accuracy of our reserve estimates relies in part on the ability of our management team, engineers and other advisors to make accurate assumptions. Economic factors beyond our control, such as interest rates and exchange rates, will also impact the value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, and will require us to use significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each property. As a result, our reserve estimates will be inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those we estimate. If actual production results vary substantially from our reserve estimates, this could materially reduce our revenues and result in the impairment of our oil and natural gas interests. Exploration, development, production (including transportation and workover costs), marketing (including distribution costs) and regulatory compliance costs (including taxes) will substantially impact the net revenues we derive from the oil and gas that we produce. These costs are subject to fluctuations and variation in different locales in which we operate, and we may not be able to predict or control these costs. If these costs exceed our expectations, this may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to earn net revenue at our predicted levels, which may impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. If Oil and Natural Gas Prices Decrease, We May be Required to Take Write-Downs of the Carrying Value of Our Oil and Natural Gas Properties. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. A separate cost center is maintained for expenditures applicable to each country in which we conduct exploration and/or production activities. Under this method, the net book value of properties on a country-by-country basis, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated “ceiling”. The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. In calculating discounted future net revenues, oil and natural gas prices are determined using the average price during the 12 months period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the balance sheet, calculated as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the month price for each month within such period for that oil and natural gas. That average price is 46then held constant, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The net book value is compared with the ceiling on a quarterly basis. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. Under full cost accounting rules, any write-off recorded may not be reversed even if higher oil and natural gas prices increase the ceiling applicable to future periods. Future price decreases could result in reductions in the carrying value of such assets and an equivalent charge to earnings. In countries where we do not have proved reserves, dry wells drilled in a period would directly result in ceiling test impairment for that period.In 2011, we recorded a ceiling test impairment loss of $42.0 million in our Peru cost center related to seismic and drilling costs on two blocks which were relinquished and a ceiling test impairment loss of $25.7 million in our Argentina cost center related to an increase in estimated future operating and capital costs to produce our remaining Argentina proved reserves and a decrease in reserve volumes. In 2012, we recorded a ceiling test impairment loss of $20.2 million in our Brazil cost center related to seismic and drilling costs on Block BM-CAL-10. The farm-out agreement for that block terminated during the first quarter of 2012 when we provided notice that we would not enter into the second exploration period. In 2013, we recorded a ceiling test impairment loss of $30.8 million in our Argentina cost center due to a decrease in reserves as a result of deferred investment and inconclusive waterflood results on the Puesto Morales Block and a $2.0 million in our Brazil cost center related to lower realized prices and an increase in operating costs.Drilling New Wells and Producing Oil and Natural Gas From Existing Facilities Could Result in New Liabilities, Which Could Endanger Our Interests in Our Properties and Assets. There are risks associated with the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, craterings, sour gas releases, fires and spills. Earthquakes or weather related phenomena such as heavy rain, landslides, storms and hurricanes can also cause problems in drilling new wells. There are also risks in producing oil and natural gas from existing facilities. For example, in January 2014, the Corunta-1 exploration well on the west flank of the Moqueta field encountered drilling problems prior to reaching the reservoir target on this long-reach deviated well, and the decision was made to abandon the well. The target location will be drilled again this year with a revised drilling plan. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly reduce our revenues or cause substantial losses, impairing our future operating results. We may become subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs or other hazards. Incidents such as these can lead to serious injury, property damage and even loss of life. We generally obtain insurance with respect to these hazards, but such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. The payment of such liabilities could reduce the funds available to us or could, in an extreme case, result in a total loss of our properties and assets. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that are considered reasonable. Oil and natural gas production operations are also subject to all the risks typically associated with such operations, including premature decline of reservoirs and the invasion of water into producing formations. Prices and Markets for Oil and Natural Gas Are Unpredictable and Tend to Fluctuate Significantly, Which Could Reduce Our Profitability, Growth and Value. Oil and natural gas are commodities whose prices are determined based on world demand, supply and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. World prices for oil and natural gas have fluctuated widely in recent years. The average price for West Texas Intermediate ("WTI") per bbl has varied from $66 in 2006 to $98 in 2013, demonstrating the inherent volatility in the market. The average Brent oil price per bbl was $111 in 2011, $112 in 2012 and $109 in 2013. Given the current economic environment and unstable conditions in the Middle East, North Africa, the United States and Europe, the oil price environment is unpredictable and unstable. We expect that prices will fluctuate in the future. Price fluctuations will have a significant impact upon our revenue, the return from our oil and gas reserves and on our financial condition generally. Price fluctuations for oil and natural gas commodities may also impact the investment market for companies engaged in the oil and gas industry. Furthermore, prices which we receive for our oil sales, while based on international oil prices, are established by contract with purchasers with prescribed deductions for transportation and quality differentials. These differentials can change over time and have a detrimental impact on realized prices. Future decreases in the prices of oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the future results of our operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. In addition, oil and natural gas prices in Argentina are effectively regulated and during 2009 through 2013 were substantially lower than those received in North America. Oil prices in Colombia are related to international market prices, but adjustments that are defined by contracts with offtakers may cause realized prices to be lower or higher than those received in North America. Oil prices in Brazil are defined by contract with the refinery and may be lower or higher than those received in North America. 47Decommissioning Costs Are Unknown and May be Substantial; Unplanned Costs Could Divert Resources from Other Projects. We are responsible for costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming some of the wells, facilities and pipelines which we use for production of oil and gas reserves. Abandonment and reclamation of these facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” We have determined that we require a reserve account for these potential costs in respect of our current properties and facilities at this time, and have booked such reserve on our financial statements. If decommissioning is required before economic depletion of our properties or if our estimates of the costs of decommissioning exceed the value of the reserves remaining at any particular time to cover such decommissioning costs, we may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy decommissioning costs could impair our ability to focus capital investment in other areas of our business.Penalties We May Incur Could Impair Our Business. Our exploration, development, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively under foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations. Under these laws and regulations, we could be held liable for personal injuries, property damage, site clean-up and restoration obligations or costs and other damages and liabilities. We may also be required to take corrective actions, such as installing additional safety or environmental equipment, which could require us to make significant capital expenditures. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including the assessment of natural resource damages. We could be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. As a result of these laws and regulations, our future business prospects could deteriorate and our profitability could be impaired by costs of compliance, remedy or indemnification of our employees, reducing our profitability.Policies, Procedures and Systems to Safeguard Employee Health, Safety and Security May Not be Adequate. Oil and natural gas exploration and production is dangerous. Detailed and specialized policies, procedures and systems are required to safeguard employee health, safety and security. We have undertaken to implement best practices for employee health, safety and security; however, if these policies, procedures and systems are not adequate, or employees do not receive adequate training, the consequences can be severe including serious injury or loss of life, which could impair our operations and cause us to incur significant legal liability. Environmental Risks May Adversely Affect Our Business. All phases of the oil and natural gas business present environmental risks and hazards and are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of international conventions and federal, provincial and municipal laws and regulations. Environmental legislation provides for, among other things, restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with oil and gas operations. The legislation also requires that wells and facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to foreign governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. The application of environmental laws to our business may cause us to curtail our production or increase the costs of our production, development or exploration activities. Our Insurance May be Inadequate to Cover Liabilities We May Incur. Our involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and natural gas properties may result in our becoming subject to liability for pollution, blowouts, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although we have insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, such risks may not in all circumstances be insurable or, in certain circumstances, we may choose not to obtain insurance to protect against specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or for other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to us. If we suffer a significant event or occurrence that is not fully insured, or if the insurer of such event is not solvent, we could be required to divert funds from capital investment or other uses towards covering our liability for such events. 48Challenges to Our Properties May Impact Our Financial Condition. Title to oil and natural gas interests is often not capable of conclusive determination without incurring substantial expense. While we intend to make appropriate inquiries into the title of properties and other development rights we acquire, title defects may exist. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance for title defects, on a commercially reasonable basis or at all. If title defects do exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of our right, title and interest in and to the properties to which the title defects relate. Furthermore, applicable governments may revoke or unfavorably alter the conditions of exploration and development authorizations that we procure, or third parties may challenge any exploration and development authorizations we procure. Such rights or additional rights we apply for may not be granted or renewed on terms satisfactory to us. If our property rights are reduced, whether by governmental action or third party challenges, our ability to conduct our exploration, development and production may be impaired. We Will Rely on Technology to Conduct Our Business and Our Technology Could Become Ineffective or Obsolete. We rely on technology, including geographic and seismic analysis techniques and economic models, to develop our reserve estimates and to guide our exploration and development and production activities. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain its efficacy and to avoid obsolescence. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and may be higher than the costs that we anticipate for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Further, even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would were our technology more efficient. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The Market Price of Our Common Stock May be Highly Volatile and Subject to Wide Fluctuations. The market price of shares of our Common Stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including but not limited to:•dilution caused by our issuance of additional shares of Common Stock and other forms of equity securities, which we expect to make in connection with acquisitions of other companies or assets;•announcements of new acquisitions, reserve discoveries or other business initiatives by our competitors;•fluctuations in revenue from our oil and natural gas business;•changes in the market and/or WTI or Brent price for oil and natural gas commodities and/or in the capital markets generally, or under our credit agreement;•changes in the demand for oil and natural gas, including changes resulting from the introduction or expansion of alternative fuels;•changes in the social, political and/or legal climate in the regions in which we will operate;•changes in the valuation of similarly situated companies, both in our industry and in other industries;•changes in analysts’ estimates affecting us, our competitors and/or our industry;•changes in the accounting methods used in or otherwise affecting our industry;•announcements of technological innovations or new products available to the oil and natural gas industry; •announcements by relevant governments pertaining to incentives for alternative energy development programs;•fluctuations in interest rates, exchange rates and the availability of capital in the capital markets; and49•significant sales of shares of our Common Stock, including sales by future investors in future offerings we expect to make to raise additional capital. In addition, the market price of shares of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, which could include the following, among others:•quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; and•additions and departures of key personnel. These and other factors are largely beyond our control, and the impact of these risks, singularly or in the aggregate, may result in material adverse changes to the market price of shares of our Common Stock and/or our results of operations and financial condition. We do not Expect to Pay Dividends in the Foreseeable Future. We do not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future, as we anticipate that we will reinvest any future earnings in the development and growth of our business. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds unless they sell their shares of Common Stock, and shareholders may be unable to sell their shares on favorable terms or at all. Investors cannot be assured of a positive return on investment or that they will not lose the entire amount of their investment in shares of our Common Stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.