Item 1A. RISK FACTORSVarious risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.RISK FACTORSRisks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we face a variety of competitors across our businesses, in particular our largest competitor, Western Union. With respect to our money transfer, bill payment and money order businesses, our primary competitor is Western Union. In addition, new competitors or alliances among established companies may emerge. Further, some of our competitors have larger and more established consumer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. We cannot anticipate every effect that actions taken by our competitors will have on our business, or the money transfer and bill payment industry in general.If we fail to price our services appropriately relative to our competitors, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. For example, transaction volume in certain key corridors where we face intense competition could be adversely affected by increasing pricing pressures between our money transfer services and those of some of our competitors, which could adversely affect our financial results. If we reduce prices in order to more effectively compete in these corridors, such reductions could adversely affect our financial results.Money transfer, bill payment and money order services compete in a concentrated industry, with a small number of large competitors and a large number of small, niche competitors. We also compete with banks and niche person-to-person money transfer service providers. The electronic bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a highly fragmented consumer-to-business payment industry. Competitors in the electronic payments area include financial institutions, third parties that host financial institution and bill payment services, third parties that offer payment services directly to consumers and billers offering their own bill payment services.Our official check business competes primarily with financial institutions that have developed internal processing capabilities or services similar to ours and do not outsource official check services. Financial institutions could also offer competing official check outsourcing services to our existing and prospective official check customers.There can be no assurance that growth in consumer money transfer transactions will continue. In addition, consolidation among payment service companies has occurred and could continue to occur in the future. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing products, while also growing newly developed and acquired products, we will be unable to compete effectively in the changing marketplace, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.If we lose key agents, our business with our key agents is reduced, our key agents begin offering money transfer services under their own brand or engage other money transfer service providers, or we are unable to maintain our Global Funds Transfer agent or biller networks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Revenue from our money transfer and bill payment services is derived from transactions conducted through our retail agent and biller networks. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. There are risks associated with the check cashing industry that could cause this agent base to decline. We may not be able to retain all of our current retail agents or billers for other reasons, as the competition for retail agents and billers is intense. If agents or billers decide to leave our agent network, or if we are unable to add new agents or billers to our network, our revenue would be adversely affected.12Table of ContentsLarger agents and billers in our Global Funds Transfer segment are increasingly demanding financial concessions and more information technology customization. The development, equipment and capital necessary to meet these demands could require substantial expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will have the available capital after servicing our debt, or that we will be allowed to make such expenditures under the terms of our credit agreement. If we are unable to meet these demands, we could lose customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.A substantial portion of our transaction volume is generated by a limited number of key agents. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, our 10 largest agents accounted for 43 percent, 44 percent and 45 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue and 44 percent, 46 percent and 48 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, our largest agent, Walmart, accounted for 27 percent, 28 percent and 29 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue, and 28 percent, 30 percent and 31 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. If our contracts with Walmart or any of our other key agents are not renewed or are terminated, or if such agents reduce the number of their locations or the volume of their business with us, or cease doing business, we might not be able to replace the volume of business conducted through these agents, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if any of our key agents begin offering money transfer services under their own brand name, such as a possible Walmart branded product, or if they engage other money transfer service providers, either of which that may be permissible under our contract, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, if any of our key agents renew their contracts with us, but on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We face fraud risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as paper instrument counterfeiting, fraud and identity theft. As we make more of our services available over the internet and other digital media, we subject ourselves to new types of consumer fraud risk because requirements relating to consumer authentication are more complex with Internet services. Certain former retail agents have also engaged in fraud against consumers or us, and existing agents could engage in fraud against consumers or us. We use a variety of tools to protect against fraud; however, these tools may not always be successful. Allegations of fraud may result in fines, settlements, litigation expenses and reputational damage.The industry is under increasing scrutiny from federal, state and local regulators in connection with the potential for consumer fraud. Negative economic conditions may result in increased agent or consumer fraud. If consumer fraud levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention and reputational and financial damage. This, in turn, could lead to government enforcement actions and investigations, reduce the use and acceptance of our services or increase our compliance costs and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.MoneyGram and our agents are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material settlements, fines or penalties or changes in our or our agents’ business operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We operate in a highly regulated environment, and our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations that vary from country to country. We are also subject to oversight by various governmental agencies, both in the U.S. and abroad. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, lawmakers and regulators in the U.S. in particular have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. New or modified regulations and increased oversight may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry, which could affect our business and operations.The money transfer business is subject to a variety of regulations aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorism. We are subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the requirements of OFAC, which prohibit us from transmitting money to specified countries or to or from prohibited individuals. Additionally, we are subject to anti-money laundering laws in many other countries where we operate, particularly in the European Union. We are also subject to financial services regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, escheat laws and privacy and data protection laws. Many of these laws are constantly evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging.There has been increased public attention and heightened legislation and regulations regarding money laundering, terrorist financing, corporate use and disclosure of personal information, data protection, information security and consumer privacy. The legal, political and business environments in these particular areas are evolving, inconsistent across various jurisdictions and often unclear, which increases our operating compliance costs and our legal risks. Subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage.We are considered a Money Services Business in the U.S. under the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. As such, we are subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions in the U.S as well as many other jurisdictions. During 2013, there have been significant regulatory reviews and actions taken by U.S. and other regulators and law enforcement agencies against banks, Money Services Businesses and other financial institutions related to money laundering, and 13Table of Contentsthe trend appears to be greater scrutiny by regulators of potential money laundering activity through financial institutions. We are also subject to regulatory oversight and enforcement by The U.S. Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN. Any determination that we have violated the anti-money-laundering laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act increases the regulation and oversight of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act addresses, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, thrift charters and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires enforcement by various governmental agencies, including the CFPB. Money transmitters such as the Company will be required to provide additional consumer information and disclosures, adopt error resolution standards, and adjust refund procedures for international transactions originating in the U.S. in a manner consistent with the Remittance Transfer Rule (a rule issued by the CFPB pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act to amend Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act). In addition, the CFPB may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures. The CFPB’s authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. Our litigation exposure may also be increased by the CFPB’s authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. We may also be liable for failure of our agents to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act. We may also be subject to examination by the CFPB. The legislation and implementing regulations associated with the Dodd-Frank Act will increase our costs of compliance and will require changes in the way we and our agents conduct business.We are also subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in the U.S. and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. Because of the scope and nature of our global operations, we experience a higher risk associated with the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws than many other companies. We are subject to recordkeeping and other requirements imposed upon companies related to compliance with these laws.The European Union’s Payment Services Directive, or PSD, imposes potential liability on us for the conduct of our agents and the commission of third party fraud utilizing our services. If we fail to comply with the PSD, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Additionally, the U.S. and other countries periodically consider initiatives designed to lower costs of international remittances which, if implemented, may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards, or interpretations of legal or regulatory requirements, may reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. Any regulatory action that negatively impacts check cashers could also cause this portion of our agent base to decline. If onerous regulatory requirements were imposed on our agents, the requirements could lead to a loss of agents, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of retail business.Any violation by us of the laws and regulations set forth above could lead to significant fines or penalties and could limit our ability to conduct business in some jurisdictions. Our systems, employees and processes may not be sufficient to detect and prevent violations of the laws and regulations set forth above by our agents, which could also lead to us being subject to significant fines or penalties. In addition to these fines and penalties, a failure by us or our agents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and result in diminished revenue and profit and increase our operating costs and could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability.The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Litigation or investigations involving us or our agents could result in material settlements, fines or penalties and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have been, and in the future may be, subject to allegations and complaints that individuals or entities have used our money transfer services for fraud-induced money transfers, as well as certain money laundering activities, which may result in fines, penalties, judgments, settlements and litigation expenses. We also are the subject from time to time of litigation related to our business. The outcome of such allegations, complaints, claims and litigation cannot be predicted.Regulatory and judicial proceedings and potential adverse developments in connection with ongoing litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may also be adverse publicity associated with lawsuits and investigations that could decrease agent and consumer acceptance of our services. Additionally, our business has been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other general litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other litigation is difficult to assess or quantify but may include substantial fines and expenses, as well as the revocation of required licenses or registrations or the loss of approved 14Table of Contentsstatus, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations or consumers’ confidence in our business. Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies in these lawsuits, actions or investigations may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of these actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend or settle future lawsuits or investigations may be significant.We have received Civil Investigative Demands from a working group of nine state attorneys general who have initiated an investigation into whether we took adequate steps to prevent consumer fraud during the period starting in 2007. The Civil Investigative Demands seek information and documents relating to our procedures to prevent fraudulent transfers and consumer complaint information. We continue to cooperate fully with the states. We have submitted the information and documents requested by the states. No claims have been filed against MoneyGram at this time in connection with this investigation. Accordingly, we are unable to estimate the potential dollar amount of any loss in connection with this investigation or whether any loss in connection with this investigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. While we do not believe there is a basis for any claim or recovery with respect to this matter and intend to vigorously defend the Company if any claim is asserted, the outcome of these Civil Investigative Demands could include additional compliance costs and substantial fines, settlements or expenses and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face possible uncertainties relating to compliance with and the impact of the deferred prosecution agreement entered into with the U.S. federal government.In November 2012, we announced that we had entered into a DPA with the MDPA/U.S. DOJ relating to the investigation of transactions involving certain of the Company’s U.S. and Canadian agents, as well as its fraud complaint data and consumer anti-fraud program, during the period from 2003 to early 2009. Under the DPA, the Company agreed to pay to the U.S. a $100.0 million forfeiture that is available to victims of the consumer fraud scams perpetrated through MoneyGram agents. Pursuant to the DPA, the MDPA/U.S. DOJ filed a two-count criminal Information in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. The MDPA/U.S. DOJ will seek dismissal with prejudice of the Information if the Company has complied with its obligations during the five-year term of the DPA. Under the DPA, the Company has agreed, among other things, to retain an independent compliance monitor for a period of five years, subject to adjustment to a shorter period under certain circumstances. If the Company fails to make progress towards its compliance obligations under the DPA, the independent compliance monitor could issue an unfavorable report, which could lead to heightened scrutiny by the MDPA and U.S. DOJ.If the Company fails to comply with the DPA, the MDPA/U.S. DOJ have the right to prosecute the Company. While the Company expects to be in compliance with the DPA, a failure to comply, and a prosecution of the Company by the MDPA/U.S. DOJ, could lead to a severe material adverse effect upon the Company’s ability to conduct its business. Additionally, the terms of the DPA will impose additional costs upon the Company related to compliance and other required terms, and such additional compliance costs could be substantial. Additional compliance obligations could also have an adverse impact on the Company's operations. Furthermore, this does not resolve all inquiries from other governmental agencies such as FinCEN, which could result in additional costs, expenses and fines. The Company does not anticipate material adverse consequences from entry into the DPA on the Company’s reputation and business, but there can be no assurance that such unanticipated consequences will not occur. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, which are subject to certain OFAC restrictions.We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. It is possible that our money transfer services or other products could be used by wrong-doers in contravention of U.S. law or regulations. Such circumstances could result in increased compliance costs, regulatory inquiries, suspension or revocation of required licenses or registrations, seizure or forfeiture of assets and the imposition of civil and criminal fees and penalties. In addition to monetary fines or penalties that we could incur, we could be subject to reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in tax laws and unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take could adversely affect our tax expense and liquidity.Our future tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. From time to time, the U.S. and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. If changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.We file tax returns and take positions with respect to federal, state, local and international taxation, including positions that relate to our historical securities losses, and our tax returns and tax positions are subject to review and audit by taxing authorities. The Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, has issued Notices of Deficiency for 2005-2007 and 2009, and has also issued an Examination Report for 2008. The Company is contesting the adjustments in the Notices of Deficiency, which are related to deductions taken on securities losses. The IRS issued Notices of Deficiency disallowing among other items approximately $900.0 million of deductions on securities losses in the 2007, 2008 and 2009 tax returns. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had recognized a benefit of approximately $139.9 million relating to these deductions. If our petitions contesting the Notices of Deficiency are denied, the Company would be required to make cash payments of approximately $60.7 million, based on benefits taken and 15Table of Contentstaxable income earned through December 31, 2013. An unfavorable outcome in these audits or other tax reviews or audits could result in higher tax expense, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We establish reserves for material known tax exposures; however, there can be no assurance that an actual taxation event would not exceed our reserves.Our substantial debt service obligations, significant debt covenant requirements and our credit rating could impair our access to capital and financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business.We have substantial interest expense on our debt, and our ratings are below “investment grade.” This requires that we access capital markets that are subject to higher volatility than those that support higher rated companies. Since a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to debt service, a reduction in cash flow could result in an event of default, or significantly restrict our access to capital. Our ratings below investment grade also create the potential for a cost of capital that is higher than other companies with which we compete.We are also subject to capital requirements imposed by various regulatory bodies throughout the world. We may need access to external capital to support these regulatory requirements in order to maintain our licenses and our ability to earn revenue in these jurisdictions. An interruption of our access to capital could impair our ability to conduct business if our regulatory capital falls below requirements.Sustained financial market illiquidity, or illiquidity at our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face certain risks in the event of a sustained deterioration of financial market liquidity, as well as in the event of sustained deterioration in the liquidity, or failure, of our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions. In particular:•We may be unable to access funds in our investment portfolio, deposit accounts and clearing accounts on a timely basis to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers and make related settlements to agents. Any resulting need to access other sources of liquidity or short-term borrowing would increase our costs. Any delay or inability to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers or make related settlements with our agents could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.•Our revolving credit facility is one source of funding for our corporate transactions and liquidity needs. If any of the banks participating in our credit facility were unable or unwilling to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to engage in corporate transactions such as acquisitions could be adversely affected.•We may be unable to borrow from financial institutions or institutional investors on favorable terms, which could adversely impact our ability to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions.If financial liquidity deteriorates, there can be no assurance we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have significant exposure to loss in the event of a major bank failure or a loss of liquidity in the bank deposit market.In the event of a major bank failure, where bank regulators elect to impose losses on uninsured depositors, we would face major risks to the recovery of our bank deposits used for the purpose of settling with our agents, and to the recovery of a significant portion of our investment portfolio. At December 31, 2013, we maintained cash, cash equivalents and interest bearing deposits of $3.0 billion at commercial banks in the United States in excess of the FDIC insurance limit of $250,000 per bank. We also had cash, cash equivalents and interest bearing deposits of $0.2 billion at commercial banks outside of the United States that are not subject to insurance protection against loss.A major bank failure that results in a loss to depositors could cause a significant reduction in liquidity in the global financial system. Such an event could result in our inability to access funds in our investment portfolio, cash management accounts, and clearing accounts, which would limit our ability to settle our funds transfers and check presentments on a timely basis. Any delay in settlement of our payment services obligations can adversely impact our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as cause damage to relationships with our agents.Such a liquidity event in the banking system could also result in our banks’ inability to meet their funding obligations under our revolving credit facility, which would also contribute to our difficulties in meeting our payment services obligations, especially in a global liquidity crisis. From time to time, we access the bank market for debt, which represents a significant portion of our capital structure. Our ability to access debt markets is essential to our liquidity, and the sustained loss of liquidity to debt markets could result in a material adverse impact on us, especially if our existing debt is approaching its maturity.16Table of ContentsAn inability by us or our agents to maintain adequate banking relationships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely on domestic and international banks for international cash management, ACH and wire transfer services to pay money transfers and settle with our agents. We also rely on domestic banks to provide clearing, processing and settlement functions for our paper-based instruments, including official checks and money orders. Our relationships with these banks are a critical component of our ability to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses. An inability on our part to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships sufficient to enable us to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain adequate banking relationships.If we cannot maintain a sufficient relationship with a limited number of large international banks that provide these services, we would be required to establish a global network of banks to provide us with these services. Utilizing a global network of banks could alter the pattern of settlement with our agents and result in our agent receivables and agent payables being outstanding for longer periods than the current remittance schedule, potentially adversely impacting our cash flow. Maintaining a global network of banks may also increase our overall costs for banking services.We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses in the U.S. under the Bank Secrecy Act. U.S. regulators are increasingly taking the position that Money Service Businesses, as a class, are high risk businesses. In addition, the creation of anti-money laundering laws has created concern and awareness among banks of the negative implications of aiding and abetting money laundering activity. As a result, certain of our agents have been denied access to retail banking services in certain markets regardless of the mitigating factors and controls in place to prevent anti-money laundering law violations. If our agents are unable to obtain sufficient banking relationships, they may not be able to offer our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Concerns regarding the financial health of certain European countries, and the impact that these countries might have on the sustainability of the euro, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financing.In the normal course of our business, we maintain significant euro denominated cash balances. In 2013, the euro was our second largest currency position in the world following the U.S. dollar. The secession of a country from the euro, or the demise of the use of the euro, could result in a sudden and substantial devaluation of the euro and other currencies against the U.S. dollar. In addition, financial markets could be impaired and bank liquidity could be restricted. Our ability to generate fee revenue from our money transfer business could be impaired if the level of economic activity in the Eurozone were to decrease. Our own ability to fund our operations could be impaired if our access to our euro deposits were restricted, or if damage to the banking system were to result from a currency crisis. We could also lose value in our deposits, which in turn could be material to our operating results.A breach of security in the systems on which we rely could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We obtain, transmit and store confidential consumer, employer and agent information in connection with certain of our services. These activities are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. The requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. Any security breaches in our computer networks, databases or facilities could harm our business and reputation, adversely affect consumers’ confidence in our or our agents' business, cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities, cause a loss of consumers, subject us to lawsuits and subject us to potential financial losses. We rely on a variety of technologies to provide security for our systems. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect our systems. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Third-party contractors and agents also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our data. If users gain improper access to our, our agents', or our contractors' systems or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential customer information. A security breach could expose us to monetary liability and legal proceedings, lead to reputational harm, cause a disruption in our operations, and make our consumers less confident in our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.17Table of ContentsBecause our business is particularly dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our information technology, computer network systems and data centers, disruptions to these systems and data centers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to provide reliable services largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money and the management of data necessary to do so. The success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of transactions and data. We rely on the ability of our employees and our internal systems and processes to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner.In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or physical break-in), security breach, computer virus, improper operation, improper action by our employees, agents, consumers, financial institutions or third party vendors or any other event impacting our systems or processes or our agents' or vendors’ systems or processes, we could suffer financial loss, loss of consumers, regulatory sanctions, lawsuits and damage to our reputation or consumers’ confidence in our business. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful. We may also experience problems other than system failures, including software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. In addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees who support our systems or perform any of our major functions could adversely affect our business. Certain of our agent contracts, including our contract with Walmart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our system, and give the agent a right to collect damages or engage other providers and, in extreme situations, a right of termination for system downtime exceeding agreed upon service levels. If we experience significant system interruptions or system failures, our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or damages that we may incur.In addition, our ability to continue to provide our services to a growing number of agents and consumers, as well as to enhance our existing services and offer new services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to effectively manage the technology associated with our business, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and loss of agents or consumers. Any failure of our systems in scalability, reliability and functionality could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Continued weakness in economic conditions, in both the U.S. and global markets, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our money transfer business relies in part on the overall strength of global economic conditions as well as international migration patterns. Consumer money transfer transactions and international migration patterns are affected by, among other things, employment opportunities and overall economic conditions. Our consumers tend to be employed in industries such as construction, manufacturing and retail that tend to be cyclical and more significantly impacted by weak economic conditions than other industries. This may result in reduced job opportunities for our customers in the U.S. or other countries that are important to our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increases in employment opportunities may lag other elements of any economic recovery.Our agents or billers may have reduced sales or business as a result of weak economic conditions. As a result, our agents could reduce their number of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Our billers may have fewer consumers making payments to them, particularly billers in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn such as the automobile, mortgage and retail industries.If general market conditions in the U.S. or other national economies important to our business were to deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our consumer transactions decline or international migration patterns shift due to deteriorating economic conditions, we may be unable to timely and effectively reduce our operating costs or take other actions in response, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.18Table of ContentsA significant change, material slow down or complete disruption in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our money transfer business relies in part on international migration patterns, as individuals move from their native countries to countries with greater economic opportunities or a more stable political environment. A significant portion of money transfer transactions are initiated by immigrants or refugees sending money back to their native countries. Changes in immigration laws that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that make it more difficult for individuals to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our money transfer remittance volume or growth rate. Sustained weakness in global economic conditions could reduce economic opportunities for migrant workers and result in reduced or disrupted international migration patterns. Reduced or disrupted international migration patterns, particularly in the U.S. or Europe, are likely to reduce money transfer transaction volumes and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, significant changes in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face credit risks from our retail agents and financial institution customers.The vast majority of our money transfer, bill payment and money order business is conducted through independent agents that provide our products and services to consumers at their business locations. Our agents receive the proceeds from the sale of our payment instruments and money transfers, and we must then collect these funds from the agents. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit payment instruments or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the payment instrument or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer.Moreover, we have made, and may make in the future, secured or unsecured loans to retail agents under limited circumstances or allow agents to retain our funds for a period of time before remitting them to us. As of December 31, 2013, we had credit exposure to our agents of approximately $484.1 million in the aggregate spread across 11,355 agents.Our official checks outsourcing business is conducted through banks and credit unions. Their customers issue official checks and money orders and remit to us the face amounts of those instruments the day after they are issued. We may be liable for payment on all of those instruments. As of December 31, 2013, we had credit exposure to our official check financial institution customers of approximately $282.0 million in the aggregate spread across 1,103 financial institutions.We monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and financial institution customers on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that the models and approaches we use to assess and monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and financial institution customers will be sufficiently predictive, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to timely mitigate an increased credit risk.In the event of an agent bankruptcy, we would generally be in the position of creditor, possibly with limited security or financial guarantees of performance, and we would therefore be at risk of a reduced recovery. We are not insured against credit losses, except in circumstances of agent theft or fraud. Significant credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to operate our official check and money order businesses profitably if we are not successful in retaining those partners that we wish to retain.In recent years, there has been a decline in overall paper-based transactions in the official check and money order business. As a result of the pricing initiatives undertaken in prior years, we have reduced the commission rates paid to our official check financial institution customers and instituted certain per item and other fees for both the official check and money order services. In addition, the historically low interest rate environment has resulted in low or no commissions being paid to our official check financial institution customers. If we are not successful in retaining customers and agents that we wish to retain, and if we are unable to proportionally reduce our fixed costs associated with the official check and money order businesses, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.19Table of ContentsIf we fail to successfully develop and timely introduce new and enhanced products and services or if we make substantial investments in an unsuccessful new product, service or infrastructure change, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced methods of providing money transfer, bill payment, money order, official check and related services that keep pace with competitive introductions, technological changes and the demands and preferences of our agents, financial institution customers and consumers. If alternative payment mechanisms become widely substituted for our current products and services, and we do not develop and offer similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. We may make future investments or enter into strategic alliances to develop new technologies and services or to implement infrastructure changes to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. Such investments and strategic alliances, however, are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that such investments or strategic alliances will be successful. If such investments and strategic alliances are not successful, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.There are a number of risks associated with our international sales and operations that could adversely affect our business.We provide money transfer services between and among more than 200 countries and territories and continue to expand in various international markets. Our ability to grow in international markets and our future results could be harmed by a number of factors, including:•changes in political and economic conditions and potential instability in certain regions, including in particular the recent civil unrest, terrorism and political turmoil in Africa, the Middle East and other regions;•restrictions on money transfers to, from and between certain countries;•money control and repatriation issues;•changes in regulatory requirements or in foreign policy, including the adoption of domestic or foreign laws, regulations and interpretations detrimental to our business;•possible increased costs and additional regulatory burdens imposed on our business;•the implementation of U.S. sanctions, resulting in bank closures in certain countries and the ultimate freezing of our assets;•burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations;•possible fraud or theft losses, and lack of compliance by international representatives in foreign legal jurisdictions where collection and legal enforcement may be difficult or costly;•reduced protection of our intellectual property rights;•unfavorable tax rules or trade barriers;•inability to secure, train or monitor international agents; and•failure to successfully manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, in particular with respect to the euro.In particular, a portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial condition. See “Enterprise Risk Management—Foreign Currency Risk” in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.If we are unable to adequately protect our brand and the intellectual property rights related to our existing and any new or enhanced products and services, or if we infringe on the rights of others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.The MoneyGram brand is important to our business. We utilize trademark registrations in various countries and other tools to protect our brand. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand and the value of our brand was to decrease as a result.20Table of ContentsWe rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We also investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties to prevent our infringement of those rights. We may be subject to third party claims alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights or have misappropriated other proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to defend such claims or to protect and police our own rights. Some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection or to successfully defend against claims of intellectual property infringement could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation.Failure to attract and retain key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business.Our success depends to a large extent upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. The lack of management continuity or the loss of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and future development. A failure to attract and retain key personnel could also have a material adverse impact on our business.The operation of retail locations and acquisition or start-up of businesses create risks and may adversely affect our operating results.We operate Company-owned retail locations for the sale of our products and services. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations that are triggered by our ownership of retail locations and our employment of individuals who staff our retail locations. There are also certain risks inherent in operating any retail location, including theft, personal injury and property damage and long-term lease obligations.We may, from time to time, acquire or start-up businesses both inside and outside of the U.S. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. Such risks include, among others:•risks in connection with acquisitions and start-ups and potential expenses that could be incurred in connection therewith; •risks related to the integration of new businesses, including integrating facilities, personnel, financial systems, accounting systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures; •the diversion of capital and management’s attention from our core business; •the impact on our financial condition and results of operations due to the timing of the new business or the failure of the new business to meet operating expectations; and •the assumption of unknown liabilities relating to the new business.Risks associated with acquiring or starting new businesses could result in increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to implement our global transformation program as planned, the expected amount of costs associated with such program may exceed our forecasts and we may not be able to realize the full amount of estimated savings from such program.We have announced our global transformation program and may implement additional initiatives in future periods. While our global transformation program is designed to enhance compliance, fuel multi-channel growth and improve our cost structure, there can be no assurance that the anticipated savings will be realized. Further, the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. If we do not realize the anticipated savings from these initiatives, or if the costs to implement them are greater than expected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are required to certify and report on our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In order to achieve effective internal controls we may need to enhance our accounting systems or processes, which could increase our cost of doing business. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business.21Table of ContentsRisks Related to Ownership of Our StockTHL owns a substantial percentage of our common stock, and its interests may differ from the interests of our other common stockholders.As of December 31, 2013, THL held approximately 62.8 percent of our common shares outstanding. On a fully diluted basis, they held approximately 50.9 percent of the Company. As a result, THL is able to determine the outcome of matters put to a stockholder vote, including the ability to elect our directors, determine our corporate and management policies, including compensation of our executives, and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. THL also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of THL will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. THL’s concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might reduce our share price.In view of their significant ownership stake in the Company, THL has appointed three members to our Board of Directors. Our current Board consists of nine directors, three of which have been appointed by THL, one of which is our Chief Executive Officer, and five of which are independent. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, as long as the Investors have a right to designate directors to our Board, THL shall have the right to designate two to four directors who shall each have equal votes and who shall have such number of votes equal to the number of directors as is proportionate to the Investors’ common stock ownership, calculated on a fully-converted basis, as if all of the shares of D Stock were converted to common shares. Therefore, each director designated by THL will have multiple votes and each other director will have one vote.We have significant overhang of salable common stock and D Stock held by the Investors relative to the public float of our common stock.The trading market for our common stock was first established in June 2004. The public float in that market now consists of approximately 62.3 million shares issued and 58.0 million shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013. In accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement entered into between us and the Investors at the closing of the 2008 Recapitalization, we have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 that permits the offer and sale by the Investors of all of the common stock or D Stock currently held by the Investors. The Investors have sold 10.9 million shares of common stock pursuant to this registration statement, which leaves the Investors with 50.0 million shares of common stock that can still be sold pursuant to the registration statement. The registration statement also permits us to offer and sell up to $500 million of our common stock, preferred stock, debt securities or any combination of these securities, from time to time, subject to market conditions and our capital needs. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our common stock.Our charter documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could inhibit your ability to receive a premium on your investment from a possible sale of the Company.Our charter documents contain provisions that may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire the Company. These provisions and specific provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain business combinations, including a merger or change in control of the Company. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company even if stockholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or if a significant number of our stockholders believed such a proposed transaction to be in their best interests. As a result, stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so.Our board of directors has the power to issue series of preferred stock and to designate the rights and preferences of those series, which could adversely affect the voting power, dividend, liquidation and other rights of holders of our common stock.Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the power to issue series of preferred stock and to designate the rights and preferences of those series. Therefore, our board of directors may designate a new series of preferred stock with the rights, preferences and privileges that the board of directors deems appropriate, including special dividend, liquidation and voting rights. The creation and designation of a new series of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power, dividend, liquidation and other rights of holders of our common stock and, possibly, any other class or series of stock that is then in existence.22Table of ContentsThe market price of our common stock may be volatile.The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include the perceived prospects or actual operating results of our business; changes in estimates of our operating results by analysts, investors or our management; our actual operating results relative to such estimates or expectations; actions or announcements by us or our competitors; litigation and judicial decisions; legislative or regulatory actions; and changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.