Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISK FACTORS The substantial dividends payable on our newly issued preferred stock and our increased debt service, together with significant debt covenant requirements, could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. On March 25, 2008, we closed a transaction with affiliates of Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (“THL”) and affiliates of Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”) (collectively, the “Investors”) pursuant to which we received a substantial infusion of both equity and debt capital (the “Capital Transaction”). The equity component consisted of the sale of 760,000 shares, in aggregate, of Series B Participating Convertible Preferred Stock to THL (the “Series B Preferred”) and non-voting Series B-1 Participating Convertible Preferred Stock to Goldman Sachs (the “Series B-1 Preferred”) (collectively, the “Series B Stock”) for an aggregate purchase price of $760.0 million. In addition, Goldman Sachs provided debt financing of $500.0 million at an annual interest rate of 13.25 percent, which increases to a rate of 15.25 percent if interest is accrued. This debt is non-redeemable for five years, except with substantial premiums, and thus we have only a limited opportunity to refinance this debt to obtain more favorable terms. In addition, the Company has secured additional term debt of $250.0 million under an amendment and restatement of our existing credit facility. 12 Table of Contents As a result of the Capital Transaction, we are highly leveraged and have substantial dividend and debt service obligations. Our indebtedness and dividends payable on our Preferred Stock could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could have an adverse impact on our stockholders, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations, acquisitions, product development or other corporate initiatives; • our ability to pay cash dividends to the holders of our common stock is significantly restricted, and no such dividends are contemplated in the foreseeable future; • our debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants which significantly impact our ability to operate our business and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default, which could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and • our substantial leverage could place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures. Our senior debt pursuant to our credit facility has been rated non-investment grade. Together with our leverage, this rating adversely affects our ability to obtain additional financing and increases our cost of borrowing. A non-investment grade rating may also affect our ability to attract and retain certain customers. Our recent transaction with the Investors significantly dilutes the interests of the common stockholders and grants other important rights to the Investors. The Series B Stock issued to the Investors is convertible into shares of common stock or common equivalent stock at the price of $2.50 per common share (subject to anti-dilution rights), giving the Investors an initial equity interest in us of approximately 79 percent. Dividends payable on Series B Stock are expected to be accrued and not be paid in cash for approximately five years, which will substantially increase the ownership interest of the Investors and dilute the interests of the common stockholders. The Preferred Stock will initially have voting rights equivalent to 9.9% of the outstanding common shares on a fully converted basis. Upon receipt of all regulatory approvals, or upon receipt of notification from THL on or after June 15, 2008, the holders of the Preferred Stock would attain full voting rights. At that time, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will vote as a class with the common stock, and will have a number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock issuable if all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock were converted plus the number of shares of common stock issuable if all outstanding shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock were converted into Series B Preferred Stock and subsequently converted into common stock. As a result, the Investors collectively are able to determine the outcome of matters put to a stockholder vote, including the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. THL also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of the Investors will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common shares. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our share price. In view of their significant ownership stake in the Company, the Investors have appointed two members and two observers to our Board of Directors and the size of our Board has been reduced to six members, of which three 13 Table of Contents members are independent. As promptly as practicable, we are required under the terms of the Capital Transaction to seek to amend our Certificate of Incorporation, including the filing of a proxy statement with the SEC and use our best efforts to solicit proxies in favor of such amendment, which would grant directors appointed by the Investors voting rights proportionate to their ownership interest calculated on a fully converted basis. In addition, the Investors have the ability, at their discretion, to appoint the number of directors proportionate to their common stock ownership, calculated on a fully-converted basis, as well as to the proportionate committee membership. If we lose key customers or are unable to maintain our Global Funds Transfer agent network, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain all of our current retail agents. The competition for retail agents is intense and larger customers in our Global Funds Transfer segment are increasingly demanding financial concessions and more information technology customization. The development, equipment and capital necessary to meet these demands could require substantial expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will have the available capital after paying dividends to the Investors and servicing our debt, or that we will be allowed to make such expenditures under the terms of our debt agreements. If we were unable to meet these demands, we could lose customers and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Additionally, as a result of the events leading to the Capital Transaction, agents have asked for certain funding arrangements and special remittance patterns for their benefit, which arrangements negatively impact our liquidity. The reputational damage to our brand as a result of the events leading to the Capital Transaction may make it harder for us to retain existing agents or develop new agent relationships. If agents decide to leave our Global Funds Transfer network, or if we are unable to sign new agents to our network, our revenue would decline. Existing agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition. An agent may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. There are risks associated with the check cashing industry that could cause this portion of our agent base to decline. Any regulatory action that adversely affects check cashers could also cause this portion of our agent base to decline. A substantial portion of our transaction volume is generated by a limited number of key agents. During 2007 and 2006, our ten largest agents accounted for 36 percent and 34 percent of our total fee and investment revenue and 49 percent and 48 percent of the total fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment, respectively. Our largest agent, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), accounted for 20 percent and 17 percent of our total fee and investment revenue and 27 percent and 24 percent of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment in 2007 and 2006, respectively. If any of these key agents were not to renew their contracts with us, or if such agents were to reduce the number of their locations, or cease doing business, we might not be able to replace the volume of business conducted through these agents, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be unable to operate our Payment Systems segment profitably as a result of our new official check strategy and the realignment of our investment portfolio. Our earnings in the official check business are generated primarily by the investment of funds we receive from the sale of payment instruments. In turn, we pay commissions to our official check customers based on the outstanding balance produced by that customer’s sale of official checks, calculated at a rate based on short term financial indices, such as the federal funds rate. In the past our investments included long- and medium-term fixed income securities, a portion of which were asset-backed securities. In conjunction with the Capital Transaction and our new official check strategy, we have realigned our investment portfolio to focus on highly liquid, short-term securities that are expected to produce a lower rate of return. The success of our new official check strategy is dependent on our ability to reduce the commissions that we pay to our official check customers and to exit certain large customer relationships with high commission rates and costs, thereby continuing to generate a profit after the realignment of our investment portfolio into lower yielding investments. There can be no assurance that we will successfully reprice those official check customers that we wish to retain or that the timing of the exit of customers will not adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Our exit from the largest official check relationships will reduce our revenue and operating income in the short term, with no initial replacement for such revenue. 14 Table of Contents Notwithstanding the realignment of our investment portfolio, fluctuations in interest rates will affect the value and amount of revenue produced by our investment portfolio, the amount of commissions that we pay and the amount we pay or receive under our swap agreements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage interest rate exposure through the use of swaps or other arrangements or that interest rate fluctuation in our investments will align with the commission rates we pay to our official check customers. Litigation or investigations involving MoneyGram or our agents, which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have received a notice from the SEC that it is conducting an informal, non-public inquiry of our financial statements, reporting and disclosures related to our investment portfolio and offers and negotiations to sell the Company or our assets. While the SEC’s notice states that it has not determined that any violations of the securities laws have occurred, there can be no assurance of the outcome of the investigation. We are also currently the subject of stockholder litigation. While we believe the suits are without merit and intend to vigorously defend against such claims, the outcome of the lawsuits cannot be predicted at this time. The cost to defend the SEC inquiry and the stockholder litigation could be substantial, regardless of the outcome. Regulatory and judicial proceedings, including risks associated with the SEC inquiry, our failure to comply with certain state regulatory requirements for a brief period of time, and potential adverse developments in connection with ongoing stockholder litigation, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may also be adverse publicity associated with lawsuits and investigations that could decrease agent and customer acceptance of our services. Additionally, our business has been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other general litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies in these lawsuits, actions or investigations may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of these actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend or settle future lawsuits or investigations may be significant. An inability of our agents or for the Company to maintain adequate banking relationships may adversely affect our financial condition. Prior to the closing of the Capital Transaction, certain of our clearing and processing banks sought additional intra-day and other advance funding from us. While we believe the Capital Transaction will restore more ordinary funding protocols, it is possible that clearing and cash management banks will require advance funding or other security or even terminate their relationships with us. For the clearing of certain items, such as money orders, we rely on two clearing banks and thus have limited alternative resources. We may experience increased costs or significant disruption of our business if we should lose one of our existing clearing bank relationships. We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses, or “MSBs,” in the United States under the Bank Secrecy Act. The federal banking regulators are increasingly taking the stance that MSBs, as a class, are high risk. As a result, several financial institutions, which look to the federal regulators for guidance, have terminated their banking relationships with some of our agents and one depository bank has terminated its banking relationship with us. If agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services. Any inability on our part to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive management team and other key employees. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, there are no assurances that we will be able to attract or retain other skilled personnel in the future. 15 Table of Contents Failure to maintain sufficient capital could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not have sufficient capital, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions. While we received substantial new capital in conjunction with the Capital Transaction, there can be no assurance that we will not need additional capital in the future. Given the leveraged nature of the Company and the significant restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, there can be no assurance that we will have access to additional capital. Failure to have such access could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to successfully develop and timely introduce new and enhanced products and services or we make substantial investments in an unsuccessful new product or service or infrastructure change, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced methods of providing money transfer, money order, official check, bill payment and related services that keep pace with competitive introductions, technological changes and the demands and preferences of our agents, financial institution customers and consumers. Many of our competitors offer stored-value cards and other electronic payment mechanisms, including various internet-based and cellular phone payment services, that could be substituted for traditional forms of payment, such as the money order, bill payment and money transfer services that we offer. If these alternative payment mechanisms become widely substituted for our products and services, and we do not develop and ramp up similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Additionally, we may make future investments or enter into strategic alliances to develop new technologies and services or to implement infrastructure change to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. Investments in new technologies and infrastructure and strategic alliances are inherently risky and we cannot guarantee that such investments will be successful or will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property rights related to our existing and any new or enhanced products and services, or if we are unable to avoid infringing on the rights of others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We also investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties to prevent our infringement of those rights. We may be subject to claims of third parties that we infringe or have misappropriated their proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to defend any such claims or to protect and police our own rights. Some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection or to successfully defend against an intellectual property infringement action could harm our business and prospects. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and we face a variety of competitors across our businesses. In addition, new competitors or alliances among established companies may emerge. Our primary competition comes from Western Union, which has substantially greater transaction volume than we do. Western Union has a larger agent base, a more established brand name and substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We cannot anticipate every effect that actions taken by Western Union will have on our business, or the money transfer and bill payment industry in general. Money transfer, money order and walk-in bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a concentrated industry, with a small number of large competitors and a large number of small, niche competitors. Our large competitors are other providers of money orders and money transfer services, including Western Union and the U.S. Postal Service with respect to money orders. We also compete with banks and niche person-to-person 16 Table of Contents money transfer service providers that serve select send and receive corridors. The electronic bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a highly fragmented consumer- to-business payment industry. Competitors in the electronic payments area include financial institutions, third parties that host financial institution and bill payment services, third parties that offer payment services directly to consumers and billers offering their own bill payment services. Competitors of PropertyBridge Inc. (“PropertyBridge”), our wholly owned subsidiary, include the providers of electronic bill payment services discussed above, as well as companies focusing solely on the rent payment vertical, companies focusing on multiple payment verticals, including rent payments, and providers of property management software. Our Payment Systems segment competes in a concentrated industry with a small number of large competitors. Our competitors in this segment are federal home loan banks. We also compete with financial institutions that have developed internal processing capabilities or services similar to ours and do not outsource these services. Recent levels of growth in consumer money transfer transactions, bill payment transactions and other payment products may not continue. In addition, consolidation among payment services companies has occurred and could continue. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing products, while also growing newly developed and acquired products, we will be unable to compete effectively in the changing marketplace, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. MoneyGram and our agents are subject to a number of risks relating to U.S. and International regulatory requirements which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties or changes in our or their business operations that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations which vary from country to country. The money transfer business is subject to a variety of regulations aimed at the prevention of money laundering and terrorism. We are subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, the requirements of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which prohibit us from transmitting money to specified countries or on behalf of prohibited individuals and the anti-money laundering laws in many countries where we operate, particularly in the European Union. We are also subject to financial services regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, currency control regulations, escheat laws, laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information security and consumer disclosure and consumer protection laws. Many of the laws to which we are subject are evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. Any intentional or negligent violation of the laws and regulations set forth above by our employees or our agents could lead to significant fines or penalties, and could limit our ability to conduct business in some jurisdictions. In addition to those direct costs, a failure by us or our agents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. In connection with the Capital Transaction, we sold certain investments at a realized loss of $260.6 million. As a result of these portfolio sales, we were not in compliance for a brief period of time with the minimum net worth requirements of the states in which we are licensed to conduct our money transfer and other payment services businesses, as well as certain other requirements of one state. This failure to meet minimum net worth or other requirements may result in the states imposing certain fines and other penalties in the future. Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards, or interpretations of legal or regulatory requirements may occur which could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business, require significant systems redevelopment, reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely effect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. If onerous regulatory requirements were imposed on our agents, the requirements could lead to a loss of agents, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of retail business. Failure by us or our agents to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of applicable regulatory authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, 17 Table of Contents termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. While we have instituted policies and procedures to protect against violations of law, it is possible that our money transfer service or other products could be used by wrong-doers in contravention of U.S. law or regulations. In addition to monetary fines or penalties that we could incur, we could be subject to reputational harm that could adversely impact the value of our stockholders’ investments. We face security risks related to our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. A material breach of security of our systems could adversely affect our business. Any significant security or privacy breaches in our facilities, computer networks and databases could harm our business and reputation, cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities and cause a loss of customers. We discovered an unlawful data server attack and suffered potential improper data access by unauthorized persons in late 2006. We rely on encryption software and other technologies to provide security for processing and transmission of confidential customer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect customer transaction data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our confidential customer information. If users gain improper access to our or our contractor’s systems or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential customer information. A security breach could expose us to monetary liability, lead to reputational harm and make our customers less confident in our services. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money, and, as a result, our business is particularly dependent on our ability to process and settle transactions accurately and on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money. Our revenues consist primarily of transaction fees that we charge for the movement of this money and investment revenues. These transaction fees represent only a small fraction of the total amount of money that we move. Because we are responsible for large sums of money that are substantially greater than our revenues, the success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of the money that is remitted to us and that is used to clear payment instruments or complete money transfers. We rely on the ability of our employees and our internal systems and processes to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In addition, we rely on third-party vendors in our business, including clearing and processing banks that clear our money orders and official checks, and process automated clearing house (“ACH”) transactions and bank wires on our behalf and certain of our telecommunications providers. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or physical break-in), security breach, improper operation or any other event impacting our systems or processes or our vendors’ systems or processes, or improper action by our employees, agents, customer financial institutions or third party vendors, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful and we may experience problems other than system failures. We may also experience software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. Certain of our agent 18 Table of Contents contracts, including our contract with Wal-Mart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our system, and give the agent a right to collect damages and in extreme situations a right of termination for system downtime exceeding agreed upon service levels. If we face system interruptions and system failures our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or damages that we may incur. If we are unable to effectively operate and scale our technology to match our business growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to continue to provide our services to a growing number of agents and consumers, as well as to enhance our existing services and offer new services is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to effectively manage the technology associated with our business, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and loss of agents or consumers. Any failure of our systems in scalability, reliability and functionality could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face credit and fraud risks from our retail agents. The vast majority of our Global Funds Transfer segment is conducted through independent agents that provide our products and services to consumers at their business locations. Our agents receive the proceeds from the sale of our payment instruments and money transfers and we must then collect these funds from the agents. As a result, we have credit exposure to our agents, which averages approximately $1.4 billion in the aggregate, representing a combination of money orders, money transfers and bill payment proceeds. During 2007, this credit exposure was spread across over 24,000 agents, of which 12 owed us in excess of $15.0 million each at any one time. We are not insured against credit losses, except in circumstances of agent theft or fraud. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit money order or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer. Moreover, we have made, and may make in the future, secured or unsecured loans to retail agents under limited circumstances or allow agents to retain our funds for a period of time before remitting them to us. The failure of agents owing us large amounts to remit funds to us or to repay such amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An increase in fraudulent activity using our services could lead to reputational damage to our brand and could reduce the use and acceptance of our services. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As we make more of our services available over the internet we subject ourselves to new types of credit and fraud risk, because requirements relating to customer authentication are more complex with internet services. If fraud levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention and reputational and financial damage. This in turn could reduce the use and acceptance of our services or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The opening of new retail locations and acquisition or start-up of businesses create risks and may adversely affect our operating results. We have recently opened several Company-owned retail locations for the sale of our products and services. Operating such retail locations presents new risks for us. After substantial capital investment in such retail locations it is uncertain how such locations will be accepted in the market and how quickly transaction volume will increase to offset such investment. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations that are triggered by our ownership of the retail locations and our employment of the individuals staffing such retail locations. There are also certain risks inherent in operating any retail location, including theft, personal injury and property damage and risks associated with long-term lease obligations and employee matters. Additionally, we may from time to time acquire or start up businesses both inside and outside of the U.S. The acquisition and integration of businesses, involve a number of risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses that we acquire or open, including their facilities, personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, we could experience 19 Table of Contents increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The diversion of capital and management’s attention from our core business that results from opening retail locations or acquiring or opening new businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material slow down or complete disruption in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The money transfer business relies in part on migration patterns, as individuals move from their native country into countries with greater economic opportunities or a more stable political environment. A significant portion of money transfer transactions are initiated by immigrants or refugees sending money back to their native countries. Changes in immigration laws and economic development patterns that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that make it more difficult for individuals to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our money transfer remittance volume or growth rate and could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are a number of risks associated with our international sales and operations that could adversely affect our business. We provided money transfer services between and among approximately 180 countries and territories at December 31, 2007, and our strategy is to expand our international business. Our ability to grow in international markets and our future results could be harmed by a number of factors, including: • changes in political and economic conditions and potential instability in certain regions; • changes in regulatory requirements or in foreign policy, including the adoption of foreign laws detrimental to our business; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations; • possible fraud of theft losses, and lack of compliance by international representatives in foreign legal jurisdictions where collection and legal enforcement may be difficult or costly; • reduced protection for our intellectual property rights; • unfavorable tax rules or trade barriers; • inability to secure, train or monitor international agents; and • failure to successfully manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to certify and report on our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In order to achieve effective internal controls we may need to enhance our accounting systems or processes which could increase our cost of doing business. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have significant overhang of salable convertible preferred stock relative to float. The trading market for our common stock was first established in June 2004. The float in that market now consists of approximately 82,000,000 shares out of a total of 82,598,034 shares issued and outstanding as of March 14, 2008. Under the Registration Rights Agreement entered into between the Company and the Investors at the closing of the 20 Table of Contents Capital Transaction, the Investors and other parties may require us to register for sale publicly (at times largely of their choosing) all of the Series B Stock that they hold, as well as any common stock or Series D Preferred Stock into which the Series B Stock may be converted. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our common stock. An agreement among the Investors and Wal-Mart could prevent an acquisition of the Company. The Investors and Wal-Mart have entered into an agreement that, among other things, prevents the Investors, without the prior written consent of Wal-Mart, from voting in favor of, consenting to or selling or transferring their equity securities in a manner that would result in a change of control of the Company. This provision is effective until March 17, 2010. The Investors collectively have a majority of the voting stock of the Company and Wal-Mart, whose interests may differ from our stockholders’ interests, could prevent the Investors from agreeing to a sale of the Company under certain circumstances. Our charter documents, our rights plan and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could inhibit your ability to receive a premium on your investment from a possible sale of the Company. Our charter documents contain provisions that may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire the Company. In addition, we have adopted a rights plan which enables our Board of Directors to issue preferred share purchase rights that would be triggered by certain prescribed events. These provisions and specific provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a merger or change in control of the Company. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company even if stockholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or if a significant number of our stockholders believed such a proposed transaction to be in their best interests. As a result, stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, which require, among other things; (i) that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days; (ii) that the average market capitalization and stockholders’ equity be at least $75 million over 30 consecutive trading days; and (iii) that the average market capitalization be at least $25 million over 30 consecutive trading days. Our closing stock price on March 21, 2008 was $1.71, our market capitalization was approximately $141.2 million. Our stockholders’ deficit was $488.5 million at December 31, 2007. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company; and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We did not timely file with the SEC this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. As a result of this delayed filing, we are currently ineligible to use Form S-3 to register securities with the SEC in capital-raising transactions, which may adversely affect our cost of future capital. We did not timely file with the SEC our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Although the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K will bring us current in our filings with the SEC, because this Form 10-K was not filed within the deadline promulgated by the SEC, the filing was not timely under applicable SEC rules. As a result of the delayed filing of this Form 10-K, we are ineligible to use a “short form” registration statement on 21 Table of Contents Form S-3 to register securities for sale by us or for resale by other security holders, in capital raising transactions, until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for at least 12 calendar months. In the meantime, for capital raising transactions, we would need to use Form S-1 to register securities with the SEC, or issue such securities in a private placement, which could increase the time and resources required to raise capital during this period. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS None. 