Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the various other factors identified in or incorporated by reference into any other documents filed by us with the SEC in evaluating our company and our business. The risks discussed herein can adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Company Interest rate mismatches between the interest-earning assets held in our investment portfolio and the borrowings used to fund the purchases of those assets may reduce our net income or result in a loss during periods of changing interest rates. Certain of the assets held in our investment portfolio, particularly RMBS, have a fixed coupon rate, generally for a significant period, and in some cases, for the average maturity of the asset. At the same time, our repurchase agreements and other borrowings typically provide for a payment reset period of 30 days or less. In addition, the average maturity of our borrowings generally will be shorter than the average maturity of the RMBS currently in our portfolio and shorter than the RMBS and certain other targeted assets in which we seek to invest. Historically, we have used swap agreements as a means for attempting to fix the cost of certain of our liabilities over a period of time; however, these agreements will generally not be sufficient to match the cost of all our liabilities against all of our investment securities. In the event we experience unexpectedly high or low prepayment rates on RMBS or other mortgage-related securities or loans, our strategy for matching our assets with our liabilities is more likely to be unsuccessful which may result in reduced earnings or losses and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, the RMBS we invest in may be backed by ARMs that are subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase over the life of the security. Our borrowings typically are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while interest rate caps could limit the interest rates on RMBS in our portfolio that are backed by ARMs. This problem is magnified for RMBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs that are not fully indexed. Further, some RMBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, the payments we receive on RMBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs may be lower than the related debt service costs. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Interest rate fluctuations will also cause variances in the yield curve, which may reduce our net income. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on the RMBS and other interest-earning assets in our investment portfolio. For example, because the RMBS in our investment portfolio typically bear interest based on longer-term rates while our borrowings typically bear interest based on short-term rates, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of these securities. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields of the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur significant operating losses. Declines in the market values of assets in our investment portfolio may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The market value of the interest-bearing assets in which we invest, most notably RMBS and purchased prime ARM loans and any related hedging instruments, may move inversely with changes in interest rates. We anticipate that increases in interest rates will generally tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our interest-bearing assets. A significant percentage of the securities within our investment portfolio are classified for accounting purposes as “available for sale.” Changes in the market values of trading securities will be reflected in earnings and changes in the market values of available for sale securities, such as CLOs, will be reflected in stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in market values of certain of our investment securities may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in market value of an available for sale security is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. 18 A decline in the market value of our interest-bearing assets may adversely affect us, particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan, which would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In addition, if we are, or anticipate being, unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. In the event that we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions may accelerate indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow, any of which could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Moreover, if we liquidate the assets at prices lower than the amortized cost of such assets, we will incur losses. Market values of our investments may also decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, actual or perceived increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk, and widening of credit spreads. If the market values of our investments were to decline for any reason, the value of your investment could also decline. A flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect prepayment rates on and supply of RMBS in which we invest. Our net interest income varies in substantial part as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. We believe that when the yield curve is relatively flat, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into hybrid mortgages with longer initial fixed rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our RMBS to experience faster prepayments. In addition, a flatter yield curve generally leads to fixed-rate mortgage rates that are closer to the interest rates available on hybrid ARMs and ARMs, possibly decreasing the supply of the RMBS we seek to acquire. At times, short-term interest rates may increase and exceed long-term interest rates, causing an inverted yield curve. When the yield curve is inverted, fixed-rate mortgage rates may approach or be lower than hybrid ARMs or ARM rates, further increasing prepayments on, and negatively impacting the supply of, RMBS. Increases in prepayments on our portfolio will cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. Prepayment rates can change, adversely affecting the performance of our assets. The frequency at which prepayments (including both voluntary prepayments by the borrowers and liquidations due to defaults and foreclosures) occur on mortgage loans underlying RMBS is affected by a variety of factors, including the prevailing level of interest rates as well as economic, demographic, tax, social, legal, legislative and other factors. Generally, borrowers tend to prepay their mortgages when prevailing mortgage rates fall below the interest rates on their mortgage loans. A significant percentage of the mortgage loans underlying our existing RMBS were originated in a relatively higher interest rate environment than currently in effect and, thus, could be prepaid if borrowers are eligible for refinancings. In general, “premium” securities (securities whose market values exceed their principal or par amounts) are adversely affected by faster-than-anticipated prepayments because the above-market coupon that such premium securities carry will be earned for a shorter period of time. Generally, “discount” securities (securities whose principal or par amounts exceed their market values) are adversely affected by slower-than-anticipated prepayments. Since many RMBS will be discount securities when interest rates are high, and will be premium securities when interest rates are low, these RMBS may be adversely affected by changes in prepayments in any interest rate environment. The adverse effects of prepayments may impact us in various ways. First, particular investments, such as IOs, may experience outright losses in an environment of faster actual or anticipated prepayments. Second, particular investments may under-perform relative to any hedges that we may have constructed for these assets, resulting in a loss to us. In particular, prepayments (at par) may limit the potential upside of many RMBS to their principal or par amounts, whereas their corresponding hedges often have the potential for unlimited loss. Furthermore, to the extent that faster prepayment rates are due to lower interest rates, the principal payments received from prepayments will tend to be reinvested in lower-yielding assets, which may reduce our income in the long run. Therefore, if actual prepayment rates differ from anticipated prepayment rates, our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. Our targeted assets and other asset classes we may pursue in the future include various forms of structured Agency RMBS, including IOs, POs and CMOs. Although these assets are generally subject to the same risks as other Agency RMBS in our portfolio, certain types of risks may be enhanced depending on the type of structured Agency RMBS in which we invest. Our target assets and other asset classes we may pursue in the future include various forms of structured Agency RMBS, including IOs, POs and CMOs, which are securitizations (i) issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, (ii) that are collateralized by Agency RMBS and (iii) that are divided into various tranches that have different characteristics (such as different maturities or different coupon payments). These securities may carry greater risk than an investment in other types of Agency RMBS. For example, the Agency IOs or POs we invest in, are more sensitive to prepayment risks than Agency ARMs. In addition, many support securities and securities purchased at a significant premium from certain CMO tranches are more sensitive to prepayment risk. Because a significant portion of our portfolio is invested in these assets, our overall portfolio and results of operations may be more sensitive to prepayment risk. 19 Increased levels of prepayments on the mortgages underlying our structured Agency RMBS, particularly Agency IOs, might decrease net interest income or result in a net loss, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. When we acquire structured Agency RMBS, such as Agency IOs, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate, generating an expected yield. When the prepayment rates on the mortgages underlying our structured Agency RMBS are higher than expected, our returns on those securities may be materially adversely affected. For example, the value of our Agency IOs is extremely sensitive to prepayments because holders of these securities do not have the right to receive any principal payments on the underlying mortgages. Agency IOs currently comprise a large percentage of our interest earning assets. Therefore, if the mortgage loans underlying our Agency IOs are prepaid at a higher than anticipated rate, such securities would decline in value and provide less cash flow, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest. During the second half of 2008, the U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Authority, (“FHA”), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. These and any future programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, in February 2009 the U.S. Treasury announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is a multi-faceted plan, intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things: • allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; • creating the Homeowner Stability Initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and • allowing judicial modifications of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming residential mortgage loans during bankruptcy proceedings. In September 2011, the White House announced they are working on a major plan to allow some of the 11 million homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth to refinance. In November 2011, the Federal Housing Financing Authority (“FHFA”) announced changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program (“HARP”) that expands access to refinancing for qualified individuals and families whose homes have lost value, among other things, increasing the HARP loan-to-value ratio above 125%. However, this would only apply to mortgages guaranteed by the GSEs. There are many challenging issues to this program, notably the question as to whether a loan with a loan-to-value ratio of 125% qualifies as a mortgage or an unsecured consumer loan. The chances of this initiative’s success have created additional uncertainty in the RMBS market, particularly with respect to possible increases in prepayment rates. On January 4, 2012, the U.S. Federal Reserve , or Federal Reserve, issued a white paper outlining additional ideas with regard to refinancings and loan modifications. It is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on some Agency RMBS and possibly some loans held in securitization trusts. These initiatives, any future loan modification programs and future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest and the prime ARM loans held in our securitization trusts. Certain actions by the Federal Reserve could cause a flattening of the yield curve, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. On September 21, 2011, the Federal Reserve announced “Operation Twist,” which is a program by which it intends to purchase, by the end of June 2012, $400 billion of U.S. Treasury securities with remaining maturities between six and 30 years and sell an equal amount of U.S. Treasury securities with remaining maturities of three years or less. The effect of Operation Twist could be a flattening in the yield curve, which could result in increased prepayment rates due to lower long-term interest rates and a narrowing of our net interest margin. Consequently, Operation Twist and any other future securities purchase programs by the Federal Reserve could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. 20 The ongoing debt crisis in Europe could have an adverse effect on our business and liquidity. During the past several years, several large European financial institutions have experienced financial difficulty and have been either rescued by government assistance or by other large European banks. Several European governments have coordinated plans to attempt to shore up their financial sectors through loans, credit guarantees, capital infusions, promises of continued liquidity funding and interest rate cuts. Additionally, other governments of the world’s largest economic countries have also implemented interest rate cuts in response to the crisis. There is no assurance that these and other plans and programs will be successful in halting the European credit crisis or in preventing other financial institutions from failing. If unsuccessful, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as those of the entire mortgage industry. As the European credit crisis continues, there is a growing risk to the financial condition and stability of major European financial institutions. Some of these financial institutions have U.S. banking subsidiaries which have provided financing to us, particularly repurchase agreement financing collateralized by Agency RMBS. Some of the U.S. banking subsidiaries of these major European financial institutions have recently been placed on credit watch. If the European credit crisis continues to impact these major European financial institutions, there is the possibility that it will also impact the operations and lending activities of their U.S. banking subsidiaries, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, or result in counterparty default under our repurchase agreements. In addition, it is possible that certain of our U.S. based counterparties could have significant exposure to European sovereign debt or affected European financial institutions. This could adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as those of the entire mortgage industry. The downgrade of the U.S.’s, certain European countries’ and certain European financial institutions’ credit ratings and any future downgrades of the U.S.’s, certain European countries’ or certain European financial institutions’ credit ratings may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating for the first time in history. Because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are in conservatorship of the U.S. Government, downgrades to the U.S.’s credit rating could impact the credit risk associated with Agency RMBS and certain CMBS and, therefore, decrease the value of the Agency RMBS and certain CMBS in our portfolio. In addition, the downgrade of the U.S. Government’s credit rating, the credit ratings for certain European countries and certain financial institutions domiciled in Europe has created broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which has weighed heavily on the global banking system. Therefore, the recent downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain European countries and certain financial institutions domiciled in Europe, and any future downgrades of the U.S.’s credit rating or the downgrade of credit ratings for certain European countries or certain financial institutions domiciled in Europe, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficult conditions in the mortgage real estate markets have caused and may cause us to experience losses and these conditions may persist for the foreseeable future. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the residential mortgage market, the residential and commercial real estate market, the financial markets and the economy generally. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our current assets and our targeted assets are credit sensitive, we believe the risks associated with our investments will be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values and defaults. Concerns about the residential and commercial mortgage markets and a declining real estate market generally, as well as inflation, energy costs, sovereign debt and geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. The residential and commercial mortgage markets have been adversely affected by changes in the lending landscape, the severity of which was largely unanticipated by the markets. There is no assurance that these markets will return to prior levels or that they will not worsen. In addition, an economic slowdown or delayed recovery may result in continued decreased demand for residential and commercial property, which would likely further compress homeownership rates and place additional pressure on home price performance, while forcing commercial property owners to lower rents on properties with excess supply. We believe there is a strong correlation between home price growth rates and mortgage loan delinquencies. Moreover, to the extent that a property owner has fewer tenants or receives lower rents, such property owners will generate less cash flow on their properties, which increases significantly the likelihood that such property owners will default on their debt service obligations. If the borrowers of our mortgage loans, or the loans underlying certain of our investment securities, default, we may incur losses on those loans or investment securities. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income and our ability to acquire our targeted assets in the future on favorable terms or at all. The further deterioration of the residential or commercial mortgage markets, the financial markets and the economy generally may result in a decline in the market value of our investments or cause us to experience losses related to our assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations, the availability and cost of credit and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 21 Changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, may adversely affect our business. Payments on the Agency RMBS in which we invest are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. As broadly publicized, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have experienced significant losses in recent years, causing the U.S. Government to place Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under federal conservatorship and to inject significant capital in these businesses. Questions regarding the continued viability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as currently structured, including the guarantees that back the RMBS issued by them, and the U.S. Government’s participation in the U.S. residential mortgage market through the GSEs, continue to persist. In February 2011, the U.S. Department of the Treasury along with the U.S. Department Housing and Urban Development released a much-awaited report titled “Reforming America’s Housing Finance Market”, which outlines recommendations for reforming the U.S. housing system, specifically the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and transforming the government’s involvement in the housing market and its relationship to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It is unclear how future legislation may impact the housing finance market and the investing environment for mortgage-related securities and more specifically, Agency RMBS and non-Agency RMBS, as the method of reform is undecided and has not yet been defined by the regulators. New regulations and programs related to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including those affecting the relationship between the GSEs and the U.S. Government or the guarantees that back the RMBS issued by the GSEs, may adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of Agency RMBS and otherwise materially harm our business and operations. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which events related to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from Agency RMBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on those assets and our cost of financing those assets. A reduction in the supply of Agency RMBS could also negatively affect the pricing of Agency RMBS by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our Agency RMBS and our cost of financing those assets. In addition, any law affecting these government-sponsored enterprises may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Agency RMBS issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Commercial mortgage loans that we may acquire or that back our CMBS are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure and risks of loss that may be greater than similar risks associated with residential mortgage loans. We currently own and may acquire in the future CMBS backed by commercial mortgage loans or may directly acquire commercial mortgage loans. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with residential mortgage loans. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If we incur losses on CMBS, or commercial mortgage loans, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be materially adversely affected. We may invest in high yield or subordinated and lower rated securities that have greater risks of loss than other investments, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash available for dividends. We may invest in high yield or subordinated or lower rated securities, including subordinated tranches of CMBS or non-Agency RMBS, which involve a higher degree of risk than other investments. Numerous factors may affect a company’s ability to repay its high yield or subordinated securities, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. These securities may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Our right to payment and security interest with respect to such securities may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. Failure to procure adequate funding and capital would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the value of our common stock and our ability to distribute cash to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and therefore are not able to retain our earnings for new investments. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding and capital on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and you may lose part or all of your investment. 22 Competition may prevent us from acquiring assets on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire our targeted assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring our targeted assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than us. Additionally, many of our potential competitors are not subject to REIT tax compliance or required to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may not in the future be able to acquire sufficient quantities of our targeted assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience periods of illiquidity for our assets which could adversely affect our ability to finance our business or operate profitably. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of our interest-earning assets at advantageous times or in a timely manner because these assets can experience periods of illiquidity. The lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, legal or contractual restrictions on resale or disruptions in the secondary markets. This illiquidity may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to finance our business and could cause us to incur substantial losses. Our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value based on market quotations from pricing services and broker/dealers. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. All of our current portfolio investments are, and some of our future portfolio investments will be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We currently value and will continue to value these investments on a quarterly-basis at fair value as determined by our management based on market quotations from pricing services and brokers/dealers. Because such quotations and valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Lack of diversification in the number of assets we acquire would increase our dependence on relatively few individual assets. Our management objectives and policies do not place a limit on the size of the amount of capital used to support, or the exposure to (by any other measure), any individual asset or any group of assets with similar characteristics or risks. In addition, because we are a small company, we may be unable to sufficiently deploy capital into a number of assets or asset groups. As a result, our portfolio may be concentrated in a small number of assets or may be otherwise undiversified, increasing the risk of loss and the magnitude of potential losses to us and our stockholders if one or more of these assets perform poorly. For example, our portfolio may at times be concentrated in or consist of a substantial amount of Agency IOs that are more sensitive to prepayment risk, or we may invest in CMBS secured by properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. To the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of security, downturns relating generally to such region or type of security may result in defaults on a number of our assets within a short time period, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy and asset allocation and operational and management policies without stockholder consent, which may result in the purchase of riskier assets and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy and asset allocation and operational and management policies at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our purchasing assets or entering into hedging transactions that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the assets and hedging transactions described in this report. A change in our investment strategy or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to real estate values, interest rates, prepayment rates, credit risk and other factors. A change in our asset allocation could result in us purchasing assets in classes different from those described in this report. Our board of directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including those with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. In addition, certain of our external managers have great latitude in making investment and hedging decisions on our behalf. Changes in our investment strategy, hedging strategy and asset allocation and operational and management policies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 23 Residential whole mortgage loans, including subprime residential mortgage loans and non-performing and sub-performing residential mortgage loans, are subject to increased risks. We may acquire and manage pools of residential whole mortgage loans. Residential whole mortgage loans, including subprime mortgage loans and non-performing and sub-performing mortgage loans, are subject to increased risks of loss. Unlike Agency RMBS, whole mortgage loans generally are not guaranteed by the U.S. Government or any GSE, though in some cases they may benefit from private mortgage insurance. Additionally, by directly acquiring whole mortgage loans, we do not receive the structural credit enhancements that benefit senior tranches of RMBS. A whole mortgage loan is directly exposed to losses resulting from default. Therefore, the value of the underlying property, the creditworthiness and financial position of the borrower and the priority and enforceability of the lien will significantly impact the value of such mortgage. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. The liquidation proceeds upon sale of such real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, and any costs or delays involved in the foreclosure or liquidation process may increase losses. Whole mortgage loans are also subject to “special hazard” risk (property damage caused by hazards, such as earthquakes or environmental hazards, not covered by standard property insurance policies), and to bankruptcy risk (reduction in a borrower’s mortgage debt by a bankruptcy court). In addition, claims may be assessed against us on account of our position as mortgage holder or property owner, including assignee liability, responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities. In some cases, these liabilities may be “recourse liabilities” or may otherwise lead to losses in excess of the purchase price of the related mortgage or property. Loan delinquencies on our prime ARM loans held in securitization trusts may increase as a result of significantly increased monthly payments required from ARM borrowers after the initial fixed period. The scheduled increase in monthly payments on certain ARM loans held in our securitization trusts may result in higher delinquency rates on those mortgage loans and could have a material adverse affect on our net income and results of operations. This increase in borrowers' monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with ARM loans, who in turn, may no longer be able to prepay the loan or refinance the loan at comparably low interest rates or at all. A decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance their loans or sell their homes We have acquired and may acquire in the future non-Agency RMBS collateralized by subprime and Alt A mortgage loans, which are not guaranteed by any government-sponsored entity or agency and are subject to increased risks. We have acquired and may acquire in the future non-Agency RMBS, which are backed by residential real estate property but, in contrast to Agency RMBS, their principal and interest are not guaranteed by a GSE such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. We may acquire non-Agency RMBS backed by collateral pools of mortgage loans that have been originated using underwriting standards that are less restrictive than those used in underwriting “prime mortgage loans” and “Alt A mortgage loans.” These lower standards include mortgage loans made to borrowers having imperfect or impaired credit histories, mortgage loans where the amount of the loan at origination is 80% or more of the value of the mortgage property, mortgage loans made to borrowers with low credit scores, mortgage loans made to borrowers who have other debt that represents a large portion of their income and mortgage loans made to borrowers whose income is not required to be disclosed or verified. Due to current economic conditions and other factors, many of the mortgage loans backing the non-Agency RMBS have in recent periods experienced increased rates of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss, and they are likely to continue to experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher, and that may be substantially higher, than those experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. Thus, because of the higher delinquency rates and losses associated with these mortgage loans, the performance of non-Agency RMBS could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. We may be required to repurchase loans if we breached representations and warranties from loan sale transactions, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. Loans from our discontinued mortgage lending operations that were sold to third parties under sale agreements include numerous representations and warranties regarding the manner in which the loan was originated, the property securing the loan and the borrower. If these representations or warranties are found to have been breached, we may be required to repurchase the loan. We may be forced to resell these repurchased loans at a loss, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. 24 The mezzanine loan assets that we may acquire or originate will involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties. We may acquire or originate mezzanine loans, which take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. These types of assets involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property, because the loan may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements between the holder of the mortgage loan and us, as the mezzanine lender, may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, even if we are able to foreclose on the underlying collateral following a default on a mezzanine loan, we would be substituted for the defaulting borrower and, to the extent income generated on the underlying property is insufficient to meet outstanding debt obligations on the property, may need to commit substantial additional capital to stabilize the property and prevent additional defaults to lenders with existing liens on the property. Significant losses related to mezzanine loans originated or acquired by us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. To the extent that due diligence is conducted on potential assets, such due diligence may not reveal all of the risks associated with such assets and may not reveal other weaknesses in such assets, which could lead to losses. Before acquiring certain assets, such as whole mortgage loans, CMBS or other mortgage-related or other fixed income assets, we or the external manager responsible for the acquisition and management of such asset may decide to conduct (either directly or using third parties) certain due diligence. Such due diligence may include (i) an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the asset’s credit profile, (ii) a review of all or merely a subset of the documentation related to the asset, or (iii) other reviews that we or the external manager may deem appropriate to conduct. There can be no assurance that we or the external manager will conduct any specific level of due diligence, or that, among other things, the due diligence process will uncover all relevant facts or that any purchase will be successful, which could result in losses on these assets, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our real estate assets are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly in the future, either through direct acquisitions or upon a default of mortgage loans. Real estate assets are subject to various risks, including: · acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; · acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; · adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; and · changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; The occurrence of any of the foregoing or similar events may reduce our return from an affected property or asset and, consequently, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We are highly dependent on information systems and system failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including RMBS trading activities, which could materially adversely affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 25 A change in the Federal Reserve's intention to hold the Federal Funds Target Rate near zero through mid-2014 that would result in higher interest rates may adversely affect the market value of our interest earning assets and, therefore, also our book value. In response to the 2008 financial and credit crisis, the Federal Reserve lowered the Federal Funds Target Rate to near zero in an effort to stabilize markets and improve liquidity. Recently, the Federal Reserve announced that it intends to hold the Federal Funds Target Rate near zero through mid-2014. These actions have resulted in favorable borrowing terms under many of our repurchase agreeements. However, a change in the Federal Reserve's stated intention to hold the Federal Funds Target Rate near zero would result in higher short-term interest rates, which may negatively affect the market value of our investment securities because in a period of rising interest rates, the relative value of the interest earning assets we own can be expected to fall and reduce our book value. In addition, our fixed-rate interest earning assets, generally, are more negatively affected by these increases because in a period of rising interest rates, our interest payments could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate interest earning assets would not change. Risk Related to Our Debt Financing and Hedging Our access to financing sources, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, especially in light of current market conditions, may be limited, and this may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate capital and financing sources to fund our operations. However, as previously discussed, the capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in recent years, as most recently caused by the U.S. deficit debate and Eurozone sovereign debt concerns which exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for lenders. If these levels of market volatility and disruption continue or worsen, it could materially adversely affect one or more of our lenders and could cause one or more of our lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing, or to increase the costs of that financing, or to become insolvent. Moreover, we are currently party to repurchase agreements of a short duration and there can be no assurance that we will be able to roll over or re-set these borrowings on favorable terms, if at all. In the event we are unable to roll over or re-set our reverse repos, it may be more difficult for us to obtain debt financing on favorable terms or at all. In addition, if regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to us. In general, this could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity or require us to sell assets at an inopportune time or price. Under current market conditions, securitizations are generally unavailable or limited, which has also limited borrowings under warehouse facilities and other credit facilities that are intended to be refinanced by such securitizations. Consequently, depending on market conditions at the relevant time, we may have to rely on additional equity issuances to meet our capital and financing needs, which may be dilutive to our stockholders, or we may have to rely on less efficient forms of debt financing that consume a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our stockholders and other purposes. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms (including, without limitation, cost and term) at the desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or dispose of assets, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 26 We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements and that would adversely affect our profitability. Currently, a significant portion of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. If the interest rates on these agreements increase at a rate higher than the increase in rates payable on our investments, our profitability would be adversely affected. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: · the movement of interest rates; · the the availability of financing in the market; and · the the value and liquidity of our mortgage-related assets. During 2008 and 2009, many repurchase agreement lenders required higher levels of collateral than they had required in the past to support repurchase agreements collateralized by Agency RMBS. Although these collateral requirements have been reduced to more appropriate levels, we cannot assure you that they will not again experience a dramatic increase. If the interest rates, lending margins or collateral requirements under these repurchase agreements increase, or if lenders impose other onerous terms to obtain this type of financing, our results of operations will be adversely affected. The repurchase agreements that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral, which could reduce our liquidity and harm our financial condition. We intend to use repurchase agreements to finance our investments. If the market value of the loans or securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced, but we may not have the funds available to do so. Posting additional collateral to support our repurchase agreements will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral at inopportune times and terminate our ability to borrow. This could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly require us to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We intend to leverage our equity, which will exacerbate any losses we incur on our current and future investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We intend to leverage our equity through borrowings, generally through the use of repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings or through longer-term structured debt, such as CDOs, which are obligations issued in multiple classes secured by an underlying portfolio of securities. We may, in the future, utilize other forms of borrowing. The amount of leverage we incur varies depending on our ability to obtain borrowings, the cost of the debt and our lenders’ estimates of the value of our portfolio’s cash flow. The return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Further, the leverage on our equity may exacerbate any losses we incur. Our debt service payments will reduce the net income available for distribution to our stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to sale to satisfy our debt obligations. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to margin calls under our repurchase agreements which we will have to satisfy. Significant decreases in asset valuation, could lead to increased margin calls, and we may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls. Although we have established target leverage amounts for many of our assets, there is no established limitation, other than may be required by our financing arrangements, on our leverage ratio or on the aggregate amount of our borrowings. 27 If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on certain of our assets could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are limited in our ability to leverage certain of our assets, such as Agency RMBS or certain commercial mortgage-related securities, the returns on these assets may be harmed. A key element of our strategy is our use of leverage to increase the size of our portfolio in an attempt to enhance our returns. Our repurchase agreements are not currently committed facilities, meaning that the counterparties to these agreements may at any time choose to restrict or eliminate our future access to the facilities and we have no other committed credit facilities through which we may leverage our equity. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we would incur losses. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell RMBS to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same RMBS back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the RMBS to the lender is less than the value of those RMBS (this difference is referred to as the “haircut”), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same RMBS back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the RMBS). Certain of the assets that we pledge as collateral, including Agency IOs and CLOs, are currently subject to significant haircuts. Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Our repurchase agreements contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by margin calls under our repurchase agreements because we are dependent in part on the lenders' valuation of the collateral securing the financing. Each of these repurchase agreements allows the lender, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to reflect market value. If a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring us to post additional collateral to cover the decrease. When we are subject to such a margin call, we must provide the lender with additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings with minimal notice. Any such margin call could harm our liquidity, results of operation and financial condition. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause it to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Hedging against credit events and interest rate changes and other risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Subject to compliance with the requirements to qualify as a REIT, we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors and Eurodollar and U.S. Treasury futures to seek to hedge the interest rate risk associated with our portfolio. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, we may establish other hedging positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, at any point in time we may choose not to hedge all or a portion of these risks, and we generally will not hedge those risks that we believe are appropriate for us to take at such time, or that we believe would be impractical or prohibitively expensive to hedge. Even if we do choose to hedge certain risks, for a variety of reasons we generally will not seek to establish a perfect correlation between our hedging instruments and the risks being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the composition of our portfolio, our market views, and changing market conditions, including the level and volatility of interest rates. When we do choose to hedge, hedging may fail to protect or could materially adversely affect us because, among other things: · either we or our external managers may fail to correctly assess the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the assets in the portfolio being hedged; · either we or our external managers may fail to recalculate, re-adjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner; · the hedging transactions may actually result in poorer over-all performance for us than if we had not engaged in the hedging transactions; · credit hedging can be expensive, particularly when the market is forecasting future credit deterioration and when markets are more illiquid; · interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates; · available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks for which protection is sought; · the durations of the hedges may not match the durations of the related assets or liabilities being hedged; · many hedges are structured as over-the-counter contracts with counterparties whose creditworthiness is not guaranteed, raising the possibility that the hedging counterparty may default on their payment obligations; and · to the extent that the creditworthiness of a hedging counterparty deteriorates, it may be difficult or impossible to terminate or assign any hedging transactions with such counterparty. For these and other reasons, our hedging activity may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Hedging instruments and other derivatives historically have not, in many cases, been traded on regulated exchanges, or been guaranteed or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs that could result in material losses. Hedging instruments and other derivatives involve risk because they historically have not, in many cases, been traded on regulated exchanges and have not been guaranteed or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, for these instruments there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. We are restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of our transactions with one counterparty. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default under the hedging agreement. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in losses and may force us to re-initiate similar hedges with other counterparties at the then-prevailing market levels. Generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging transactions upon a counterparty’s insolvency, but absent an actual insolvency, we may not be able to terminate a hedging transaction without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to assign or otherwise dispose of a hedging transaction to another counterparty without the consent of both the original hedging counterparty and the potential assignee. If we terminate a hedging transaction, we may not be able to enter into a replacement contract in order to cover our risk. There can be no assurance that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and therefore we may be required to maintain any hedging position until exercise or expiration, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and certain commodity exchanges have established limits referred to as speculative position limits or position limits on the maximum net long or net short position which any person or group of persons may hold or control in particular futures and options. Limits on trading in options contracts also have been established by the various options exchanges. It is possible that trading decisions may have to be modified and that positions held may have to be liquidated in order to avoid exceeding such limits. Such modification or liquidation, if required, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our delayed delivery transactions, including TBAs, subject us to certain risks, including price risks and counterparty risks. We purchase a significant portion of our Agency RMBS through delayed delivery transactions, including TBAs. In a delayed delivery transaction, we enter into a forward purchase agreement with a counterparty to purchase either (i) an identified Agency RMBS, or (ii) a to-be-issued (or “to-be-announced”) Agency RMBS with certain terms. As with any forward purchase contract, the value of the underlying Agency RMBS may decrease between the contract date and the settlement date. Furthermore, a transaction counterparty may fail to deliver the underlying Agency RMBS at the settlement date. If any of the above risks were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Agreements with Our External Managers We are dependent on our external managers and certain of their key personnel and may not find a suitable replacement if they terminate their respective management agreements with us or such key personnel are no longer available to us. We historically were organized as a self-advised company that acquired, originated, sold and managed its assets; however, as we modified our business strategy and the targeted assets we seek to acquire in response to changing market conditions, we began to outsource the management of certain targeted asset classes for which we had limited internal resources or experience. We presently are a party to two separate management agreements with Midway and RiverBanc that provide for the external management of certain of our assets and investment strategies. Each of our external managers, in some manner, identifies, evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors certain investments on our behalf. In each case, we have engaged these third parties because of the expertise of certain key personnel of our external managers. The departure of any of the senior officers of our external managers, or of a significant number of investment professionals or principals of our external managers, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We are subject to the risk that our external managers will terminate their respective management agreement with us or that we may deem it necessary to terminate such agreement or prevent certain individuals from performing services for us, and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage certain of our assets and investment strategies. Pursuant to our management agreements, our external managers are entitled to receive a management fee that is payable regardless of the performance of the assets under their management. We will pay each of Midway and RiverBanc substantial base management fees, based on our invested capital (as such term is defined in the respective management agreements), regardless of the performance of the assets under their management. The external managers’ entitlement in many cases to non-performance based compensation may reduce its incentive to devote the time and effort of its professionals to seeking profitable investment opportunities for our company, which could result in the under-performance of assets under their management and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or to achieve capital appreciation. Pursuant to the terms of our management agreements, our external managers are generally entitled to receive an incentive fee, which may induce them to make certain investments, including speculative or high risk investments. In addition to the base management fees, payable to our external managers, our external managers are generally entitled to receive incentive compensation based, in part, upon the achievement of targeted levels of net income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead our external managers to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining liquidity and/or management of interest rate, credit or market risks, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. In addition, Midway has broad discretion regarding the types of investments it will make pursuant to its management agreement with us. This could result in increased risk to the value of our assets under the management of our external managers. 30 We compete with our external managers’ other clients for access to them. Each of Midway and RiverBanc manages, and is expected to continue to manage, other client accounts with similar or overlapping investment strategies. In connection with the services provided to those accounts, these managers may be compensated more favorably than for the services provided under our external management or advisory agreements, and such discrepancies in compensation may affect the level of service provided to us by our external managers. Moreover, each of our external managers may have an economic interest in the accounts they manage or the investments they propose. As a result, we will compete with these other accounts and interests for access to Midway and RiverBanc and the benefits derived from those relationships. For the same reasons, the personnel of each of Midway and RiverBanc may be unable to dedicate a substantial portion of their time managing our investments to the extent they manage or are associated with any future investment vehicles not related to us. There are conflicts of interest in our relationships with our external managers, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We may acquire or sell assets in which an external manager or its affiliates have or may have an interest, or we may participate in co-investment opportunities with our external managers or their affiliates. In these cases, it is possible that our interests and the interests of our external managers will not always be aligned and this could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our company. Similarly, our external managers or its affiliates may acquire or sell assets in which we have or may have an interest. Although such acquisitions or dispositions may present conflicts of interest, we nonetheless may pursue and consummate such transactions. Additionally, we may engage in transactions directly with our external managers or their affiliates, including the purchase and sale of all or a portion of a targeted asset. Acquisitions made for entities with similar objectives may be different from those made on our behalf. Our external managers may have economic interests in or other relationships with others in whose obligations or securities we may acquire. In particular, such persons may make and/or hold an investment in securities that we acquire that may be pari passu, senior or junior in ranking to our interest in the securities or in which partners, security holders, officers, directors, agents or employees of such persons serve on boards of directors or otherwise have ongoing relationships. Each of such ownership and other relationships may result in securities laws restrictions on transactions in such securities and otherwise create conflicts of interest. In such instances, the external managers may, in their sole discretion, make recommendations and decisions regarding such securities for other entities that may be the same as or different from those made with respect to securities acquired by us and may take actions (or omit to take actions) in the context of these other economic interests or relationships, the consequences of which may be adverse to our interests. The key personnel of our external managers and its affiliates devote as much time to us as our external managers deem appropriate, however, these individuals may have conflicts in allocating their time and services among us and their other accounts and investment vehicles. During turbulent conditions in the mortgage industry, distress in the credit markets or other times when we will need focused support and assistance from our external managers, other entities for which our external managers serve as manager, or their accounts, will likewise require greater focus and attention, placing the resources of our external managers in high demand. In such situations, we may not receive the necessary support and assistance we require or would otherwise receive if we were internally managed. We, directly or through our external managers, may obtain confidential information about the companies or securities in which we have invested or may invest. If we do possess confidential information about such companies or securities, there may be restrictions on our ability to dispose of, increase the amount of, or otherwise take action with respect to the securities of such companies. Our external managers’ management of other accounts could create a conflict of interest to the extent such external manager is aware of material non-public information concerning potential investment decisions and this in turn could impact our ability to make necessary investment decisions. Any limitations that develop as a result of our access to confidential information could therefore materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. There are limitations on our ability to withdraw invested capital from the account managed by Midway and our inability to withdraw our invested capital when necessary may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Pursuant to the terms of the Midway Management Agreement, we may only redeem invested capital in an amount equal to the lesser of 10% of the invested capital in the account managed by Midway or $10 million as of the last calendar day of the month upon not less than 75 days written notice, subject to our authority to direct Midway to modify its investment strategy for purposes of maintaining our qualification as a REIT and exemption from the Investment Company Act. In addition, we are only permitted to make one such redemption request in any 75-day period. In the event of a significant market event or shock, we may be unable to effect a redemption of invested capital in greater amounts or at a greater rate unless we obtain the consent of Midway. Moreover, because a reduction of invested capital would reduce the base management fee under the Midway Management Agreement, Midway may be less inclined to consent to such redemptions. If we are unable to withdraw invested capital as needed to meet our obligations in the future, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 31 Termination of our external management agreements may be difficult and costly. Termination of the RiverBanc Management Agreement without cause is subject to several conditions which may make such a termination difficult and costly. The RiverBanc Management Agreement provides that we may only terminate RiverBanc without cause and not be obligated to pay a termination fee unless we realize a negative 15% return on the assets managed for us by RiverBanc. Moreover, except as described in the preceding sentence, we can not terminate RiverBanc without cause until expiration of the initial term in 2013, and then only upon providing 180 days advance notice and subject to the payment of a termination fee equal to the product of (A) 24 and (B) the base management fee earned by RiverBanc during the one month period immediately preceding the termination date. Thus, in the event we elect not to renew the RiverBanc Management Agreement for any reason other than cause or as otherwise described in this paragraph, we will be required to pay this termination fee. In addition, the RiverBanc Management Agreement provides RiverBanc with an exclusive right of first refusal to purchase any of our assets managed by it subject to certain exceptions, in the event we terminate them for any reason. This provision could result in our loss of assets that our earnings are dependent upon or may cause us to sell assets prior to our recovery of lost value. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the RiverBanc Management Agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate RiverBanc without cause. Pursuant to the Midway Management Agreement, we are not permitted to terminate our agreement with Midway prior to the end of the initial term, and while we have agreed with Midway that we could suspend additional capital contributions to Midway in the event we experience a 20% decline in cumulative return on our invested capital in assets managed by Midway during any calendar year in the initial term, we do not have the right to cause Midway to liquidate the assets in that account. In the event we determine to terminate the Midway Management Agreement at any time in the future following expiration of the initial term, Midway has the right to liquidate the assets it manages on our behalf in its sole discretion. Moreover, as discussed above, there are certain restrictions on our ability to redeem invested capital under the Midway Management Agreement. As a result, we may have little control over the liquidation of any of our assets that are managed by Midway or the timing of the full redemption of our invested capital, which may make it more difficult to terminate our agreement with Midway and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Capital Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include, among other things: actual or anticipated changes in our current or future financial performance; changes in market interest rates and general market and economic conditions. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to common or preferred stockholders in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our common stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risk factors described herein. From July 2007 until April 2008, our Board of Directors elected to suspend the payment of quarterly dividends on our common stock. Our Board’s decision reflected our focus on the elimination of operating losses through the sale of our mortgage lending business and the conservation of capital to build future earnings from our portfolio management operations. All distributions to our common stockholders will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future at the current rate or at all. 32 Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock and preferred stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our preferred stock and common stock, with holders of our preferred stock having priority over holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. Future sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our common stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Risks Related to Our Company, Structure and Change in Control Provisions Our directors have approved broad investment guidelines for us and do not approve each investment we make. Our external managers are generally authorized to follow broad investment guidelines in determining which assets we will invest in. Although our board of directors will ultimately determine when and how much capital to allocate to our investment strategies, we generally will not, with certain exceptions, approve transactions in advance of their execution by these managers. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, we will rely primarily on information provided to us by our external managers. Complicating matters further, our external managers may use complex investment strategies and transactions, which may be difficult or impossible to unwind. As a result, because our external managers have great latitude to determine the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us, there can be no assurance that we would otherwise approve of these investments individually or that they will be successful. We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are a small company with only three full-time employees and are dependent upon the efforts of our Chief Executive Officer and President, Steven R. Mumma, and certain key individuals employed by our external managers. The loss of any key personnel or their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. The stock ownership limit imposed by our charter may inhibit market activity in our common stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). This test is known as the “5/50 test.” Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code apply to determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our capital stock for purposes of this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). To help ensure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provides that, unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person may own more than 5.0% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. The ownership limit contained in our charter could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price for our common stock or would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 33 Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control which could have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control. These provisions include the following, among others: · our charter provides that, subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, a director may be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors; · our bylaws provide that only our Board of Directors shall have the authority to amend our bylaws; · under our charter, our Board of Directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time, in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series, all without the approval of our stockholders; · the Maryland Business Combination Act; and · the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Although our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from application of the Maryland Business Combination Act and our bylaws provide that we are not subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, our Board of Directors may elect to make the “business combination” statute and “control share” statute applicable to us at any time and may do so without stockholder approval. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe that there are a number of exclusions under the Investment Company Act that are applicable to us. To maintain the exclusion, the assets that we acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. On August 31, 2011, the SEC published a concept release entitled “Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage Related Instruments” (Investment Company Act Rel. No. 29778). This release suggests that the SEC may modify the exemption relied upon by companies similar to us that invest in mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. If the SEC acts to narrow the availability of, or if we otherwise fail to qualify for, our exclusion, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market price of our common stock. Tax Risks Related to Our Structure Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and ability to make distributions. We have operated and intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income, and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. In order to satisfy these requirements, we might have to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. Moreover, while we intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, there can be no assurance that we will so qualify in any taxable year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Our payment of income tax would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to qualify as a REIT and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under the federal income tax laws, we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status. 34 REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary REIT income for that year, (ii) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year, and (iii) 100% of our undistributed REIT taxable income from prior years. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Certain of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between REIT taxable income and available cash. Such assets could include mortgage-backed securities we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable income in advance of the receipt of cash. As a result, our taxable income may exceed our cash available for distribution and the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: · sell assets in adverse market conditions, · borrow on unfavorable terms or · distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Further, our lenders could require us to enter into negative covenants, including restrictions on our ability to distribute funds or to employ leverage, which could inhibit our ability to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable to domestic shareholders that are individuals, trust and estates is 15% (through 2012). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rate applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge the RMBS in our investment portfolio. Our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. Any hedging income earned by a TRS would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. 35 A decline in the value of the real estate securing the mortgage loans that back RMBS could cause a portion of our income from such securities to be nonqualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Pools of mortgage loans back the RMBS that we hold in our investment portfolio and in which we invest. In general, the interest income from a mortgage loan is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test applicable to REITs to the extent that the mortgage loan is secured by real property. If a mortgage loan has a loan-to-value ratio greater than 100%, however, then only a proportionate part of the interest income is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test and only a proportionate part of the value of the loan is treated as a “real estate asset” for purposes of the 75% asset test applicable to REITs. This loan-to-value ratio is generally measured at the time that the REIT commits to acquire the loan. Although the IRS has ruled generally that the interest income from non-CMO RMBS is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, it is not entirely clear how this guidance would apply if we purchase non-CMO RMBS in the secondary market at a time when the loan-to-value ratio of one or more of the mortgage loans backing the non-CMO RMBS is greater than 100%, and, accordingly, a portion of any income from such non-CMO RMBS may be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. In addition, that guidance does not apply to CMO RMBS. In the case of CMO RMBS, if less than 95% of the assets of the issuer of the CMO RMBS constitute “real estate assets,” then only a proportionate part of our income derived from the CMO RMBS will qualify for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Although the law is not clear, the IRS may take the position that the determination of the loan-to-value ratio for mortgage loans that back CMO RMBS is to be made on a quarterly basis. A decline in the value of the real estate securing the mortgage loans that back our CMO RMBS could cause a portion of the interest income from those RMBS to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. If such non-qualifying income caused us to fail the 75% gross income test and we did not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Our ability to invest in and dispose of “to be announced” securities could be limited by our REIT status, and we could lose our REIT status as a result of these investments. In connection with our investment in Agency IOs, we may purchase Agency RMBS through TBAs, or dollar roll transactions. In certain instances, rather than take delivery of the Agency RMBS subject to a TBA, we will dispose of the TBA through a dollar roll transaction in which we agree to purchase similar securities in the future at a predetermined price or otherwise, which may result in the recognition of income or gains. We account for dollar roll transactions as purchases and sales. The law is unclear regarding whether TBAs will be qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and whether income and gains from dispositions of TBAs will be qualifying income for the 75% gross income test. Until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS, or we are advised by counsel that TBAs should be treated as qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% asset test, we will limit our investment in TBAs and any non-qualifying assets to no more than 25% of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Further, until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS or we are advised by counsel that income and gains from the disposition of TBAs should be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, we will limit our gains from dispositions of TBAs and any non-qualifying income to no more than 25% of our gross income for each calendar year. Accordingly, our ability to purchase Agency RMBS through TBAs and to dispose of TBAs, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, could be limited. Moreover, even if we are advised by counsel that TBAs should be treated as qualifying assets or that income and gains from dispositions of TBAs should be treated as qualifying income, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such assets are not qualifying assets and such income is not qualifying income. In that event, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if (i) the value of our TBAs, together with our non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our gross assets at the end of any calendar quarter or (ii) our income and gains from the disposition of TBAs, together with our non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 