Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business and Industry Our actual incurred losses may be greater than our loss and loss expense reserves, which could cause our future earnings, liquidity and financial rating to decline. We are liable for loss and loss expenses under the terms of the insurance policies we underwrite. In many cases, several years may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and our payment of the loss. We establish loss and loss expense reserves for the ultimate payment of all loss and loss expenses incurred. If any of our reserves should prove to be inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves resulting in a reduction in our net income in the period in which the inadequacy is identified. Future loss experience substantially in excess of established reserves could also cause our future earnings, liquidity and financial rating to decline. These reserves are based on historical data and estimates of future events and by their nature are imprecise. Our ultimate loss and loss expenses may vary from established reserves. Furthermore, factors that are subject to change, such as: • claims inflation; • claims development patterns; • legislative and judicial activity; • social and economic patterns; and • litigation and regulatory trends may have a substantial impact on our future loss experience. Additionally, we have established loss and loss expense reserves for certain lines of business we have exited, but circumstances could develop that would make these reserves insufficient. As of December 31, 2005, unpaid loss and loss expense reserves (net of reserves ceded to our reinsurers) were $174.2 million, consisting of case loss and loss expense reserves of $60.7 million and incurred but not reported loss and loss expense reserves of $113.5 million. We have re-estimated our loss and loss expense reserves attributable to insured events in prior years, which includes re-estimations with respect to excess and surplus lines and products we no longer write. These re-estimations resulted in an increase in reserves of $5.4 million, $11.1 million and $27.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A decline in our financial rating assigned by A.M. Best may result in a reduction of new or renewal business. Our insurance subsidiary received an “A-” (excellent) annual rating for 2005 from A.M. Best, the fourth highest of 16 A.M. Best ratings. A.M. Best assigns ratings that generally are based on an insurance company’s ability to pay policyholder obligations (not towards protection of investors) and focus on capital adequacy, loss and loss expense reserve adequacy and operating performance. A reduction in our performance in these criteria could result in a downgrade of our rating. A downgrade of our rating could cause our current and future general agents, retail brokers and insureds to choose other, more highly rated competitors. We are subject to extensive regulation and judicial decisions affecting insurance and tort law, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. General. Century is subject to regulations, administered primarily by Ohio, our domiciliary state, and to a lesser degree, the four other states in which Century is licensed or admitted to sell insurance. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders, as opposed to the interests of shareholders. These regulations, generally are administered by a department of insurance in each state and relate to, among other things, excess and surplus lines of business authorizations, capital and surplus 24 Table of Contents requirements, rate and form approvals, investment parameter restrictions, underwriting limitations, affiliate transactions, dividend limitations, changes in control and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of our business. Significant changes in these laws and regulations could further limit our discretion or make it more expensive to conduct our business. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. Required Licensing. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe generally to be followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Risk-Based Capital. The NAIC has adopted a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital, known as “risk-based capital.” This system establishes the minimum amount of risk-based capital necessary for a company to support its overall business operations. It identifies property and casualty insurers that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurer’s assets and liabilities and its mix of net written premiums. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could cause our insurance subsidiary to lose its regulatory authority to conduct its business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our risk-based capital as of December 31, 2005. IRIS Ratios. The NAIC Insurance Regulatory Information System (“IRIS”) is part of a collection of analytical tools designed to provide state insurance regulators with an integrated approach to screening and analyzing the financial condition of insurance companies. IRIS has two phases of screening: statistical and analytical. In the statistical phase, the NAIC database generates financial ratios based on financial information obtained from insurance companies’ annual statutory statements. The analytical phase is a review of the annual statements, financial ratios and other automated solvency tools. A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios is viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. As of December 31, 2005, Century and PIC had a combined three IRIS ratios outside the usual range, as described in “Business — Regulatory Environment — IRIS Ratios,” which could result in regulatory action. Judicial Decisions. State courts may render decisions impacting our liability for losses under insurance and tort law. This case law, as well as any legislation enacted in response, can impact claim severity, frequency and time to settlement assumptions underlying our reserves. Accordingly, our ultimate liability may exceed our estimates due to this variable, among others. Our general agents may exceed their authority and bind us to policies outside our underwriting guidelines, and until we effect a cancellation, we may incur loss and loss expenses related to that policy. As of December 31, 2005, we underwrote 57.0% of our property and casualty premiums on a binding authority basis. Binding authority business represents risks that may be quoted and bound by our general agents prior to our underwriting review. If a general agent exceeds this authority by binding us on a risk that does not comply with our underwriting guidelines, we are at risk for claims under that policy that occur during the period from its issue date until we receive the policy and cancel it. Since current management assumed control in 2000, there have been four instances in which we have recovered paid loss amounts from a general agent due to a violation of underwriting authority. Such funds were covered by the required errors and omissions insurance carried by each of our agents. 25 Table of Contents To cancel a policy for exceeding underwriting authority, we must receive and cancel the policy within statutorily prescribed time limits, typically 60 days. Our general agents are required by contract to have bound policies issued and a copy sent to our office within 30 days of the effective date of coverage. Our policy review generally takes two to four weeks, depending on the time of year. Upon review of a policy, we issue instructions to cure any material errors discovered. If cancellation of the policy is the only cure, we order the cancellation of the policy at that time pursuant to state law. As a result, we may be bound by a policy that does not comply with our underwriting guidelines, and until we can effect a cancellation, we may incur loss and loss expenses related to that policy. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. We rely substantially upon the services of Edward F. Feighan, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Erin E. West, our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and Christopher J. Timm, our Executive Vice President and Director. Messrs. Feighan and Timm and Ms. West each have an employment agreement with us. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could cause our ability to implement our business strategies to be delayed or hindered. We do not have key person insurance on the lives of any of our key management personnel, except one officer. As we continue to grow, we will need to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel, but we may not be able to do so. As we have grown, we have generally been successful in filling key positions, but our ability to continue to recruit and retain such personnel will depend upon a number of factors, such as our results of operations, prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel. Our investment results and, therefore, our financial condition may be impacted by changes in the business, financial condition or operating results of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in government monetary policies, general economic conditions and overall capital market conditions, all of which impact interest rates. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our investments. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on and the fair value of fixed-maturity securities. Unrealized gains and losses on fixed-maturity securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes and increase or decrease our shareholders’ equity. Interest rates in the United States are currently low relative to historical levels. An increase in interest rates would reduce the fair value of our investments in fixed-maturity securities. In addition, defaults by third parties who fail to pay or perform obligations could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains and could result in investment losses in our portfolio. We had fixed-maturity and equity investments with a fair value of $348.5 million as of December 31, 2005 that are subject to: • credit risk, which is the risk that our investments will decrease in value due to unfavorable changes in the financial prospects or a downgrade in the credit rating of an entity in which we have invested; • equity price risk, which is the risk that we will incur economic loss due to a decline in common or preferred stock or bond mutual fund share prices; and • interest rate risk, which is the risk that our investments may decrease in value due to changes in interest rates. Our fixed-maturity investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities. As of December 31, 2005, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations constituted 29.1% of our cash and investment portfolio. As with other fixed-maturity investments, the fair value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and 26 Table of Contents mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed securities are paid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then prevailing market rates. Our equity portfolio totaled $44.8 million as of December 31, 2005. This total includes $26.9 million of investments in preferred and common securities of individual companies, which are subject to economic loss from the decline in preferred and common share prices. As a result, the value of these investments will be determined by the specific financial prospects of these individual companies, as well as the equity markets in general. In addition, we have $17.9 million invested in bond mutual funds. Since the end of 2002, the U.S. financial markets have experienced a moderate rise in the value of the broader equity markets and a high degree of volatility in interest rates, which affect the value of our fixed-maturity securities. Our fixed-maturity securities, preferred shares and bond mutual funds, which represent $343.9 million, or 93.9% of our total cash and investment portfolio, are subject to changes in fair value based on fluctuations in interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, a 200 basis point decline in interest rates would result in a $30.9 million, or 9.0% increase in fair value of our portfolio and a 200 basis point increase would result in a $31.2 million, or 9.1%, decrease in fair value of our portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, our investment portfolio had a net unrealized investment loss, after the effect of income taxes of $3.2 million. However, these unrealized losses may not persist in the current economic environment or may not be realized. We distribute our products through a select group of general agents, five of which account for a significant part of our business, and such relationships could be discontinued or cease to be profitable. We distribute our products through a select group of general agents. Approximately 41.7% of our gross written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2005 were distributed through five general agents. In 2005, our largest agency group, with locations in five states, accounted for $41.6 million (19.3%) of our total gross written premiums. A loss of all or substantially all the business produced by one or more of these general agents could have a negative impact on our revenues. Our reinsurers may not pay claims made by us on losses in a timely fashion or may not pay some or all of these claims, in each case causing our costs to increase and our revenues to decline. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk we have assumed (known as ceding) to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us (the reinsured) of our liability to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. That is, our reinsurers may not pay claims made by us on a timely basis, or they may not pay some or all of these claims. Either of these events would increase our costs. As of December 31, 2005, we had $43.9 million of amounts recoverable from our reinsurers that we would be obligated to pay if our reinsurers failed to pay. We have recorded a provision for uncollectible amounts of $1.3 million at December 31, 2005, which relates to balances due from a reinsurer that are in dispute. If we are not able to renew our existing reinsurance or obtain new reinsurance, either our net exposure would increase or we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitment. In 2005 we purchased property and casualty excess of loss reinsurance to limit our loss from a single occurrence on any one coverage part from any one policy to $500,000. For example, if we issue a policy that provides $600,000 of coverage for a risk, we purchase excess of loss reinsurance from a reinsurer for $100,000 to provide coverage for any claim under the policy that is greater than $500,000. We are maintaining the same reinsurance structure during 2006, except that we will retain coverage for 50% of the loss amount that exceeds $500,000 on our casualty policies. Further, we purchase catastrophe reinsurance to limit losses arising from any single occurrence, regardless of how many policyholders are involved or the extent of their loss, to $4.0 million. We purchase casualty clash coverage for the loss amount above $1.0 million for any single occurrence, regardless of the number of policyholders involved. However, we may choose in the future to re-evaluate the use of reinsurance to increase, decrease or eliminate the amount of liability we cede to reinsurers, depending upon the cost and availability of reinsurance. 27 Table of Contents Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection that we purchase. The reinsurance market has changed dramatically over the past few years as a result of inadequate pricing, poor underwriting and the significant losses incurred in conjunction with the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the 2004 and 2005 storm seasons. As a result, reinsurers have exited some lines of business, reduced available capacity and implemented provisions in their contracts designed to reduce their exposure to loss. In addition, the historical results of reinsurance programs and the availability of capital also affect the availability of reinsurance. Our reinsurance facilities generally are subject to annual renewal. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase, which could increase our exposure to loss, or, if we were unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks, which would reduce our revenues. To the extent that we are forced to pay more for reinsurance or retain more liability than we do currently, we may need to reduce the volume of insurance we write. Due to the underwriting profile of our business, we have not been significantly impacted by the changes in the reinsurance market described above, including the events of September 11, 2001, or the 2004/2005 storm seasons either in claims or reinsurance terms and pricing. Our business is cyclical in nature, which will affect our financial performance and may affect the price of our common shares. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical patterns. Although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. This cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of industry participants, such as inadequate pricing and increasingly broad policy terms, and general economic factors, such as low interest rates, and the impact of terrorist attacks, and severe weather that are not within our control. These cyclical patterns cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common shares to be volatile. If we are unable to compete effectively with the large number of companies in the insurance industry for underwriting revenues, we may incur increased costs and our underwriting revenues and net income may decline. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We face competition from specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and intermediaries, as well as from diversified financial services companies that are significantly larger than we are and that have significantly greater financial, marketing, management and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors also have significantly greater experience and market recognition than we do. In its Annual Review of the Excess & Surplus Lines Industry, published in September 2004, A.M. Best stated that large insurance carriers continue to dominate the excess and surplus lines market, with the top 25 insurance groups commanding an 82.0% share of the market, and while opportunities are available in this market, the leading insurance carriers have a firm stronghold. Based on the A.M. Best report, we would not be one of the 25 largest insurance carriers in the excess and surplus lines market. Competition in this market is generally based on many factors, including the perceived market strength of the insurer, pricing, service, speed of claims payment and the reputation and experience of the insurer. We compete primarily on the basis of service. We may incur increased costs in competing for underwriting revenues. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate or to expand our operations into new markets, our underwriting revenues and net income may decline. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative and industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include: • an increase in capital-raising by companies in our lines of business, which could result in new entrants to our markets and an excess of capital in the industry; 28 Table of Contents • the implementation of commercial lines deregulation in several states, which could increase competition from standard carriers for our excess and surplus lines of insurance business; • programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe prone areas or other “alternative markets” types of coverage and; • changing practices caused by the Internet, which may lead to greater competition in the insurance business. New competition from these developments could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and thereby affect our underwriting results. We also may compete with new entrants in the future. Competition is based on many factors, including: • the perceived market strength of the insurer; • pricing and other terms and conditions; • services provided; • the speed of claims payment; • the reputation and experience of the insurer; and • ratings assigned by independent rating organizations such as A.M. Best. Ultimately, this competition could affect our ability to attract business at premium rates that are likely to generate underwriting profits. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims experienced by our insureds. Most of our property business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events such as severe hurricanes, winter weather, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and other events such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Severe weather conditions and catastrophes can cause losses in all of our property lines and generally result in an increase in the number of claims incurred as well as the amount of compensation sought by claimants because every geographic location in which we provide insurance policies is subject to the risk of severe weather conditions. In 2005, we recorded $5.4 million after tax losses related to the fall hurricane season. Prior to December 31, 2004, we have not been materially impacted by severe weather. It is possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could cause our loss and loss expense reserves to increase and our liquidity and financial condition to decline. As a holding company, we are dependent on the results of operations of our insurance subsidiary and the regulatory and contractual capacity of our subsidiary to pay dividends to us. Some states limit the aggregate amount of dividends our subsidiary may pay to us in any twelve-month period, thereby limiting our funds to pay expenses and dividends. We are an insurance holding company and our principal asset is the shares we hold in Century. Dividends and other payments from this company are our primary source of funds to pay expenses and dividends to our shareholders. The payment of dividends by Century to us is limited by statute. In general, these restrictions limit the aggregate amount of dividends or other distributions that Century may declare or pay within any twelve-month period without advance regulatory approval. Generally, this limitation is the greater of statutory net income for the preceding calendar year or 10% of the statutory surplus at the end of the preceding calendar year. In addition, insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory surplus to inadequate levels and could refuse to permit the payment of dividends of the maximum amounts calculated under any applicable formula. As a result, we may not be able to receive dividends from our subsidiary at 29 Table of Contents times and in amounts necessary to meet our debt service obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders or corporate expenses. The amount of dividends that can be paid to us from our subsidiaries in 2006 without regulatory approval is $12.1 million. Item 1(b). Unresolved Staff Comments None 