Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business. This section describes some of the more important risks that we face, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The risk factors set forth in this section could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully review the factors discussed below and the cautionary statements referred to under "Forward-Looking Statements." 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Businesses The commercial real estate finance industry has been and will continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions in the United States generally. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the global financial markets were expansively impacted by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by an unprecedented lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by the subprime residential lending and single family housing markets experiencing significant default rates, declining residential real estate values and increasing backlog of housing supply. Other lending markets also experienced extreme volatility and decreased liquidity resulting from the poor credit performance in the residential lending markets. The residential sector capital markets issues quickly spread more broadly into the asset-backed commercial real estate, corporate and other credit and equity markets. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries, including our industry, and in the broader markets. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and the lack of available credit for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. The resulting economic conditions and the difficulties currently being experienced in the commercial real estate finance industry have increased pressure on our stock price and adversely affected our business model, financial condition, results of operations and our prospects for future growth. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would exacerbate the adverse effects that the current market environment has had on us, on others in the commercial real estate finance industry and on commercial real estate generally. Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on outside sources of capital that have been severely impacted by the current economic crisis. We require significant outside capital to fund our businesses. Our businesses have been and will continue to be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets, including the lack of access to capital or prohibitively high costs of obtaining capital. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the equity and debt capital markets, including issuing common equity, preferred equity, trust preferred securities and convertible senior notes. With capital market conditions devastated by the current global economic crisis, companies in the real estate industry, including us, are currently experiencing an unprecedented lack of capital sources. Additionally, nearly all financial industry participants, including commercial real estate lenders and investors, continue to find it nearly impossible to obtain cost-effective debt capital to finance new investment activity or to refinance maturing debt. We do not know whether any sources of capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms, our businesses and our ability to operate will be severely impacted. For information about our available sources of funds, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also depend on external sources of capital because one of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income to its shareholders, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. We intend to distribute all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. These distribution requirements are partly mitigated for calendar year 2009 because REITs are permitted to pay up to 90% of its distribution requirement in common stock or other company securities, rather than cash. 18 Table of Contents The credit facilities that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral, which could significantly impact our liquidity position. We have used credit facilities to finance some of our investments. Although our secured credit facility with a major financial institution, or the Secured Term Loan, which is our primary credit facility in our real estate debt business, is not subject to margin calls based on credit spread widening, if the market value of the commercial real estate loans pledged by us decline in value due to credit quality deterioration, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. Additionally, our Master Repurchase Agreement, or the JP Facility, with a major financial institution provides the lender with a similar ability to require repayment, but also provides the lender with the ability to require repayment due to decreases in the value of the commercial real estate loan collateral based upon market credit spread movements. In a weakening economic environment, we would generally expect credit quality and the value of the commercial real estate loans that serve as collateral for our credit facilities to decline, resulting in a higher likelihood that the lenders would require partial repayment from us, which could be substantial. Posting additional collateral to support our credit facilities could significantly reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose upon the assets securing these facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. If we are unable to extend or renew our existing secured credit facilities, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be significantly harmed. Credit facilities are critical to our business. If we are unable to extend or renew our existing secured credit facilities, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be significantly harmed. In particular, the Secured Term Loan, which has $379.7 million outstanding as of December 31, 2008, of which we have guaranteed $200 million, has an initial maturity in November 2009 and contains a one-year extension at our option provided that we are in compliance with the terms of the Secured Term Loan. If we fail to comply with such terms we may be unable to exercise the extension option and be required to repay the facility in full, which would have a material adverse affect on us and our business and operations. Additionally, Wachovia, the original lender under our Secured Term Loan has recently merged with another financial institution, which creates additional uncertainly regarding the facility. Furthermore, the JP Facility, which has $44.9 million outstanding as of December 31, 2008, all of which we have guaranteed, matures in August 2009. The facility is extendable for an additional year at the lender's option. If the lender decides to not renew that facility, we would be required to repay amounts due at the maturity date, which could have a significant impact on our liquidity position. Our lenders under our credit facilities may choose to not fund future commitments. Our business plan and liquidity projections assume that our lenders under our secured credit facilities fund a certain portion of our future funding obligations to borrowers under our commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2008, we expected this amount to be $42.6 million. Nonetheless, our lenders retain discretion over their obligation to fund such future funding commitments under our commercial real estate loans. As a result, we may be required to fund future commitments with existing liquidity, which could have a significant impact on our liquidity position. Furthermore, if our lenders do not fund such future funding commitments, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which will reduce our returns on such assets. If we are unable to meet future funding commitments, our borrowers may take legal action against us, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 Table of Contents Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants relating to our operations. Our secured credit facilities contain negative covenants that, among other things, limit the amount of leverage that we may employ, require that we maintain certain interest and fixed charge coverage ratios (which may be particularly difficult to comply with given low LIBOR rates due to most of our assets paying a floating interest rate), require that we maintain a certain minimum tangible net worth, limit our recourse indebtedness, limit our ability to distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations and require us to hedge our interest rate exposure. At December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all debt covenants under our borrowings. However, if economic conditions continue to weaken and capital for commercial real estate remains scarce, we expect credit quality in our assets and across the commercial real estate sector to weaken. While we have devoted a majority of our resources to managing our existing asset base, a continued weak environment will make maintaining compliance with the credit facilities' covenants more difficult. If we are not in compliance with any of our covenants, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive such non-compliance in the future and any such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on us. Our credit facilities and exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions. Our credit facilities and our indentures governing our exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements. If a cross-default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or access capital from external sources in order to refinance our debts. If some or all of our debt obligations default and it causes a default under other indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our term debt transactions have certain coverage tests that are required to be met in order for payments to be made to our subordinate bonds and equity notes. Failing coverage tests could significantly impact our cash flow and overall liquidity position. Our term debt transactions generally require that the underlying collateral and cash flow generated by the collateral to be in excess of ratios stipulated in the related indentures. These ratios are called overcollateralization, or OC, and interest coverage, or IC, tests and are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying collateral debt securities and other assets may be used to pay principal of, and interest on, the subordinate classes of bonds in the term debt transactions. Uncured defaults on commercial real estate loans and rating agency downgrades on commercial real estate securities are the primary causes for decreases in the OC and IC ratios. In the event these tests are not met, cash that would normally be distributed to us would be used to amortize the senior notes until the financing is back in compliance with the tests. Additionally, we may be required to buy assets out of our term debt transactions in order to preserve cash flow, which could have a significant impact on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2008 we are in compliance with all of the OC and IC tests in our term debt transactions. Nonetheless, we expect that continued weak economic conditions, lack of capital for commercial real estate, decreasing real estate values and credit ratings downgrades of real estate securities will make complying with OC and IC tests more difficult in the future. Our failure to satisfy the coverage tests could adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and cash flows. We retain the subordinate classes of bonds and equity notes in the term debt transactions that we have issued, which entails certain risks, including that subordinate classes of bonds and equity notes in the term debt transactions receive distributions only if the term debt transaction generates enough income to pay all of the other bond classes. The subordinate classes of bonds and equity notes that we retain in the term debt transactions that we have issued represent leveraged investments in the underlying assets. Various classes of securities 20 Table of Contents participate in the income stream in term debt transactions and distributions on subordinate classes of bonds and equity notes are generally made only after payment of interest on, and principal of, the senior bond classes. Although generally there is no interest or principal due on the equity notes, distributions may be made to holders of the subordinate classes of bonds and equity notes on each payment date after all of the other required payments are made on each payment date. There will be little or no income available to the subordinate classes of bonds and equity notes if there are defaults by the obligors under the underlying collateral and those defaults exceed a certain amount. In that event, the value of our investment in the term debt transaction could decrease quickly and substantially. There can be no assurance that after making required payments on the senior bond classes there will be any remaining funds available to pay us. Accordingly, our subordinate classes of bonds and equity notes may not be paid in full and we may be subject to a loss of all of our interest in the event that payments are not made on the underlying assets or losses are incurred with respect to the underlying assets, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are unable to complete additional term debt transactions due to the collapse of the credit markets and the severe economic recession. We historically accessed the asset-backed markets to match-fund our real estate debt investments with non-recourse, term debt liabilities which were structured as collateralized debt obligations and sold under the N-Star brand. Due to the collapse of the credit markets and the severe economic recession, and the resulting investor concerns surrounding the real estate markets and the asset-backed markets generally, among other things, there is currently no liquidity available through the issuance of new term debt transactions. Issuing term debt transactions was a critical part of our overall business plan and we currently believe that term debt transactions will not be available for the foreseeable future, if ever. Continued disruptions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect the values of investments we made. Weakening macroeconomic conditions combined with turmoil in the capital markets has constrained equity and debt capital available for investment in commercial real estate, resulting in fewer buyers seeking to acquire commercial properties and increases in discount rates and lower valuations for commercial real estate properties. Furthermore, these deteriorating economic conditions have negatively impacted commercial real estate fundamentals, which have resulted, and may in the future result, in adverse effects on the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans. Adverse economic conditions could significantly reduce the amount of income we earn on our commercial real estate loans. Adverse economic conditions have caused us to experience an increase in the number of commercial real estate loans that could result in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our commercial real estate loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of, or an increase in, loan loss reserves. The decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted commercial real estate loan, plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. Legal proceedings, which may include foreclosure actions and bankruptcy proceedings, are expensive and time consuming. The decrease in interest income, and the costs involved in pursuing our legal remedies will reduce the amount of cash available to meet our expenses and adversely impact our liquidity and operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our borrowers may increasingly be unable to achieve their business plans due to the economic environment and strain on commercial real estate, which may cause stress in our commercial real estate loan portfolio. Many of our commercial real estate loans were made to borrowers who had a business plan to improve the collateral property. The current economic environment has created a number of obstacles to borrowers attempting to achieve their business plans, including lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across all property types, which continues to be exacerbated by rising unemployment and overall financial uncertainty. If borrowers are unable achieve their business plans, the related commercial real estate loans could go into default and severely impact our operating results and cash flows. Many of our commercial real estate loans are funded with interest reserves and our borrowers may be unable to replenish those interest reserves once they run out. Given the transitional nature of many of our commercial real estate loans, we required borrowers to pre-fund reserves to cover interest and operating expenses until the property cash flows were projected to increase sufficiently to cover debt service costs. We also generally required the borrower to refill reserves if they became deficient due to underperformance or if the borrower wanted to exercise extension options under the loan. Despite low interest rates, revenues on the properties underlying any commercial real estate loan investments will likely decrease in the current economic environment, making it more difficult for borrowers to meet their payment obligations to us. We expect that in the future some of our borrowers may have difficulty servicing our debt and will not have sufficient capital to replenish reserves, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and cash flow. Our mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans, real estate securities and preferred equity investments have been and may continue to be adversely affected by widening credit spreads, and if spreads continue to widen, the value of our loan and securities portfolios would decline further. Our investments in commercial real estate loans and real estate securities are subject to changes in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, as continues to be the case into 2009, the economic value of our existing loans decrease. If a lender were to originate a similar loan today, such loan would carry a greater credit spread than the existing loan. Even though a loan may be performing in accordance with its loan agreement and the underlying collateral has not changed, the economic value of the loan may be negatively impacted by the incremental interest foregone from the widened credit spread. The economic value of our commercial real estate loan portfolio and our real estate securities portfolio has been significantly impacted, and may continue to be significantly impacted, by credit spread widening. Loan repayments are unlikely in the current market environment. In the past, a source of liquidity for us was the voluntary repayment of loans. Because the commercial real estate asset-backed markets remain closed, and banks and life insurance companies have drastically curtailed new lending activity, real estate owners are having difficulty refinancing their assets at maturity. If borrowers are not able to refinance loans at their maturity, the loans could go into default and the liquidity that we would receive from such repayments will not be available. Furthermore, without a functioning commercial real estate finance market, borrowers that are performing on their loans will almost certainly extend such loans if they have that right, which will further delay our ability to access liquidity through repayments. Higher loan loss reserves are expected if economic conditions do not improve. If the decline in the U.S. economy does not stabilize and reverse in 2009, we will likely experience significant increases in loan loss reserves, potential defaults and asset impairment charges in 2009. 22 Table of Contents Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on loans if the economy continues to weaken and they continue to experience financial stress. Declining real property values also would increase loan-to-value ratios on our loans and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the likelihood of higher loan loss reserves. Any sustained period of increased defaults and foreclosures would adversely affect our interest income, financial condition, business prospects and our cash flows. Loan loss reserves are particularly difficult to estimate in a turbulent economic environment. Our loan loss reserves are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our determination of loan loss reserves requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which are particularly difficult to determine during a recession where commercial real estate credit has been nearly shut off and commercial real estate transactions have dramatically decreased. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flows from the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans, loan structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for a refinancing market coming back to commercial real estate in the future and expected market discount rates for varying property types. If our estimates and judgments are not correct, our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted. The mortgage loans we originate and invest in and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower under the loan. If the borrower defaults, it may result in losses to us. Mortgage loans are secured by real estate and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower, all of which are and will continue to be more prevalent if the overall economic environment does not improve significantly. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by real estate is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of a property can be affected by, among other things: •macroeconomic conditions; •tenant mix; •success of tenant businesses; •property management decisions; •property location and condition; •property operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes and maintenance costs; •competition from comparable types of properties; •changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; •changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; •any need to address environmental contamination at the property; •the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; •changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; •declines in regional or local real estate values; •declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; 23 Table of Contents •increases in interest rates; •real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; •acts of God; •social unrest and civil disturbances; •terrorism; and •increases in costs associated with renovation and/or construction. Any one or a combination of these factors may cause a borrower to default on a loan or to declare bankruptcy. If a default or bankruptcy occurs and the underlying asset value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. Additionally, we may suffer losses for a number of reasons, including the following, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. •If the value of real property or other assets securing our commercial real estate loans deteriorates. The majority of our commercial real estate loans are fully or substantially non-recourse, although a large amount of our commercial real estate loans provide for interest reserve replenishments which are recourse. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets (including escrowed funds and reserves) collateralizing the loan. For this purpose, we consider commercial real estate loans made to special purpose entities formed solely for the purpose of holding and financing particular assets to be non-recourse loans. We sometimes also make commercial real estate loans that are secured by equity interests in the borrowing entities or by investing directly in the owner of the property. In the current recession, asset values have deteriorated and there can be no assurance that the value of the assets securing our commercial real estate loans will not deteriorate further. Mezzanine loans are subject to the additional risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrowing entity. •If a borrower or guarantor defaults on recourse obligations under our commercial real estate loans. We sometimes obtain individual or corporate guarantees, which are not secured, from borrowers or their affiliates. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. Due to deteriorating economic conditions, many borrowers and guarantors are facing financial difficulties and are unable to comply with their financial covenants. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants, or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our commercial real estate loans and guarantees. •Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before making a commercial real estate loan to a borrower, assess the strength and skills of an entity's management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. 24 Table of Contents •In the event of a default or bankruptcy of a borrower, particularly in cases where the borrower has incurred debt that is senior to our commercial real estate loan. If a borrower defaults on our commercial real estate loan and the mortgaged real estate or other borrower assets collateralizing our commercial real estate loan are insufficient to satisfy our commercial real estate loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event of a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy our commercial real estate loan. In addition, certain of our commercial real estate loans are subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our commercial real estate loan or on debt senior to our commercial real estate loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our commercial real estate loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. Given the difficult economic environment, borrower bankruptcies and litigation relating to our assets will increase appreciably, which will require us to spend significant amounts of money and require significant senior management resources in order to protect our interests. •If provisions of our commercial real estate loan agreements are unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our commercial real estate loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. The subordinate mortgage notes, participation interests in mortgage notes, mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments we have originated and invested in may be subject to risks relating to the structure and terms of the transactions, as well as subordination in bankruptcy, and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our investments, which may result in losses to us. We have focused on originating, structuring and acquiring senior and subordinate debt investments secured primarily by commercial properties, including first lien mortgage loans, junior participations in first lien mortgage loans, which are often referred to as B-Notes, second lien mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and preferred equity interests in borrowers who own such properties. These investments may be subordinate to other debt on commercial property and are secured by subordinate rights to the commercial property or by equity interests in the commercial entity. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, after senior obligations are met, there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate interests. Because each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate investments can vary in their structural characteristics and lender rights. Our rights to control the default or bankruptcy process following a default will vary from transaction to transaction. The subordinate investments that we originate and invest in may not give us the right to demand foreclosure as a subordinate real estate debtholder. Furthermore, the presence of intercreditor agreements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Similarly, a majority of the participating lenders may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound. Certain transactions that we have originated and invested in could be particularly difficult, time consuming and costly to workout because of their complicated structure and the diverging interests of all the various classes of debt in the capital structure of a given asset. We are subject to risks associated with construction lending, such as declining real estate values, cost over-runs and delays in completion. Our commercial real estate loan assets include loans made to developers to construct prospective projects. The primary risks to us of construction loans are the potential for cost over-runs, particularly 25 Table of Contents given the recent increased costs of raw materials, the developer's failing to meet a project delivery schedule and the inability of a borrower to sell or refinance the project at completion and repay our commercial real estate loan due to declining real estate values. These risks could cause us to have to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to complete the project. We may also suffer losses on our commercial real estate loans if the borrower is unable to sell the project or refinance our commercial real estate loan. We have and may continue to invest in CMBS securities, including subordinate securities, which entail certain risks. Collateralized mortgage backed securities, or CMBS, are generally securities backed by obligations (including certificates of participation in obligations) that are principally secured by mortgages on real property or interests therein having a multifamily or commercial use, such as regional malls, other retail space, office buildings, industrial or warehouse properties, hotels, apartment buildings, nursing homes and senior living centers, and may include, without limitation, CMBS conduit securities, CMBS credit tenant lease securities and CMBS large loan securities. We invest in a variety of CMBS, including CMBS which are subject to the first risk of loss if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans. CMBS entitle the holders thereof to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial or multi-family mortgage loans. Consequently, CMBS will be affected by payments, defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying commercial real estate loans, which began to increase significantly towards the end of 2008 and are expected to continue to increase into 2009. Furthermore, a weakening rental market generally, including reduced occupancy rates and reduced market rental rates could reduce cash flow from the loan pools underlying our CMBS investments. Additionally, CMBS are subject to particular risks, including lack of standardized terms and payment of all or substantially all of the principal only at maturity rather than regular amortization of principal. Additional risks may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Special risks are presented by hospitals, nursing homes, hospitality properties and certain other property types. Commercial property values and net operating income are subject to volatility, which may result in net operating income becoming insufficient to cover debt service on the related commercial real estate loan, particularly if the current economic environment continues to deteriorate. The repayment of loans secured by income-producing properties is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate project rather than upon the liquidation value of the underlying real estate. Furthermore, the net operating income from and value of any commercial property are subject to various risks. The exercise of remedies and successful realization of liquidation proceeds relating to CMBS may be highly dependent on the performance of the servicer or special servicer. Expenses of enforcing the underlying commercial real estate loans (including litigation expenses) and expenses of protecting the properties securing the commercial real estate loans may be substantial. Consequently, in the event of a default or loss on one or more commercial real estate loans contained in a securitization, we may not recover our investment. The CMBS market has been severely impacted by the current economic turbulence, which has had a negative impact on the CMBS that we own. Because the CMBS markets remain closed and other participants in the commercial real estate lending have drastically curtailed new lending activity, real estate owners are having difficulty refinancing their assets. Property values have also decreased over the past year because of scarcity of financing, which, when it is available, has terms generally at much lower leverage and higher cost than available in prior years. Uncertainty regarding future economic conditions and higher returning investment opportunities available in other asset classes have also negatively impacted commercial real estate values. These conditions, together with wide-spread downgrades of CMBS by the rating agencies, significantly higher risk premiums required by investors and uncertainty surrounding commercial real 26 Table of Contents estate generally, have had a negative impact on CMBS and have significantly decreased the value of most of the CMBS that we own. Credit ratings assigned to our investments are subject to ongoing evaluations and we cannot assure you that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded. Some of our investments are rated by Moody's Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and/or Standard & Poor's, Inc. The rating agencies have commenced re-evaluations of their ratings methodologies for all securitized asset classes, including commercial real estate, in light of questionable ratings previously assigned to residential mortgage portfolios. Their reviews, when overlaid with more negative economic assumptions, are resulting in large amounts of ratings downgrade actions for CMBS, negatively impacting market values of CMBS and in some cases negatively impacting the CDO financing structures used by us and others to leverage these investments. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition. Recent market conditions and the risk of continued market deterioration have caused and may continue to cause uncertainty in valuing our real estate securities. The continued market volatility and the lack of liquidity has made the valuation process pertaining to certain of our assets extremely difficult, particularly our CMBS assets for which there is very little market activity. Historically, our estimate of the value of these investments was primarily based on active issuances and the secondary trading market of such securities as compiled and reported by independent pricing agencies. The current market environment is absent new issuances and there has been very limited secondary trading of CMBS. Therefore, our estimate of fair value, which is based on the notion of orderly market transactions, requires significant judgment and consideration of other indicators of value such as current interest rates, relevant market indices, broker quotes, expected cash flows and other relevant market and security-specific data as appropriate. The amount that we could obtain if we were forced to liquidate our securities portfolio into the current market could be materially different than management's best estimate of fair value. Our investments in REIT securities are subject to risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in senior unsecured real estate securities, which may result in losses to us. In addition to the risks resulting from the continued disruptions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions, our investments in REIT securities involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. REITs generally are required to substantially invest in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments. Our investments in REIT securities and other senior unsecured debt are also subject to the risks described above with respect to commercial real estate loans and mortgage-backed securities and similar risks, including risks of delinquency and foreclosure, the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property, risks generally related to interests in real property, and risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. REITs have been severely impacted by the current economic environment and have had very little access to the capital markets or the debt markets in order to meet their existing obligations or to refinance maturing debt. 27 Table of Contents REIT securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinate to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in securities that are rated below investment-grade. As a result, investments in REIT securities are also subject to risks of: •limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; •substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates and real estate values; •subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the REIT; •the operation of mandatory sinking fund or redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; •the possibility that earnings of the REIT may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations; •the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates, declining real estate values and economic downturns; •rating agency credit rating downgrades negatively impacting value of securities; and •covenants not being sufficient to protect investors from the adverse credit impact of merger and acquisition transactions and increased leverage of the REIT. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding REIT securities we hold and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make distributions. Investments in net lease properties may generate losses. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in net lease properties may be significantly adversely affected by a number of factors, including: •national, state and local economic conditions; •real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in an area; •the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the quality, convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; •competition from comparable properties; •the occupancy rate of, and the rental rates charged at, our properties; •the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; •the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of tenants; •the expense of re-leasing space; •changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; •the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; •cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA; •adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; •civil unrest; 28 Table of Contents •acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); •acts of terrorism or war; •adverse changes in zoning laws; and •other factors which are beyond our control. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us. Our net leased assets could be negatively impacted by the deteriorating economic conditions and weaker rental markets. Upon expiration or earlier termination of leases for space located at our properties, the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. The poor economic conditions would likely reduce tenants' ability to make rent payments in accordance with the contractual terms of their leases and lead to early termination of leases. Furthermore, corporate space needs may contract resulting in lower lease renewal rates and longer releasing periods when leases are not renewed. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. Additionally, to the extent that market rental rates are reduced, property-level cash flows would likely be negatively affected as existing leases renew at lower rates. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the space at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our net lease property portfolio. As was the case with our leases to WaMu Bank, N.A., lease defaults or terminations by one or more tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. The creditworthiness of our tenants in our net leased assets, particularly given the difficult economic environment, could be significantly impacted, which could result in their inability to meet the terms of their leases. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our properties or our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of our investments. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at the property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. The owner or operator of a site may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may experience environmental liability arising from conditions not known to us. 29 Table of Contents We may invest in real estate, or mortgage loans secured by real estate, with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment. We have only limited experience in investing in real estate with environmental liabilities. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flows. Although we believe our net leased assets and properties collateralizing our commercial real estate loan and securities investments are adequately covered by insurance, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in both loss of cash flow from, and the asset value of, the affected property. As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, insurance companies are limiting and charging significant premiums to cover acts of terrorism in insurance policies. As a result, although we, our tenants and our borrowers may carry terrorism insurance, we may suffer losses from acts of terrorism that are not covered by insurance. In addition, the commercial real estate loans which are secured by certain of our properties contain customary covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain property insurance in an amount equal to the replacement cost of the properties, which may increase the cost of obtaining the required insurance. Many of our investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to further changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us. Our investments are relatively illiquid. Especially in the current economic environment, we do not have the ability to sell properties, securities or commercial real estate loans in response to further changes in economic and other conditions, except at distressed prices. The Internal Revenue Code also places limits on our ability to sell properties held for fewer than four years. These considerations could make it difficult for us to dispose of any of our assets even if a disposition were in the best interests of our stockholders. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to further changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may result in losses to us. We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses. Most of our securities investments have explicit ratings assigned by at least one of the three leading nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies. However, given the current economic conditions and lack of credit market, we may invest in unrated securities, enter into net leases with unrated tenants or participate in unrated or distressed mortgage loans. Because the ability of obligors of net leases and mortgages, including mortgages underlying mortgage-backed securities, to make rent or principal and interest payments may be impaired during such economic recession, prices of lower credit quality investments and securities have declined. The existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments and securities. We have not established and do not currently plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. 30 Table of Contents We have no established investment criteria limiting the geographic concentration of our investments in real estate debt, real estate securities or net lease properties. If our investments are concentrated in an area that experiences adverse economic conditions, our investments may lose value and we may experience losses. Certain commercial real estate loans and securities in which we invest may be secured by a single property or properties in one geographic location. Additionally, net lease properties that we may acquire may also be located in a geographic cluster. These current and future investments carry the risks associated with significant geographical concentration. We have not established and do not plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. As a result, properties underlying our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas, and we may experience losses as a result. A worsening of economic conditions in the geographic area in which our investments may be concentrated could have an adverse effect on our business, including reducing the demand for new financings, limiting the ability of customers to pay financed amounts and impairing the value of our collateral. Our portfolio is highly leveraged, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution on our securities. We leverage our portfolio through borrowings, generally through the use of bank credit facilities, commercial real estate loans, securitizations, including the issuance of term debt transactions, and other borrowings, many of which are not currently available to us. The type and percentage of leverage varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and the lender's estimate of the stability of the portfolio's cash flow. However, we do not restrict the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders has been reduced because of the current deteriorating market conditions which have caused the cost of financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from our assets. Moreover, we may have to incur more recourse indebtedness in order to obtain financing for our business. We are subject to risks associated with managing residential land investments in our LandCap joint venture. In late 2007, we entered into a joint venture with Whitehall Street Global Real Estate Limited Partnership 2007 to form LandCap Partners, which we refer to as LandCap. The venture is managed by professionals who have extensive experience in the single family housing sector. LandCap's investment strategy was to opportunistically invest in single family residential land through land loans, lot option agreements and select land purchases. These investments were expected to generate very little current cash flow and to be held for several years prior to liquidation. The venture has been seeking third party capital, but has not received any new capital commitments and we do not currently expect to provide any new investment capital to LandCap in the future. The venture will continue to manage existing investments and we do not expect the venture to return capital to us for several years. In addition to the risks associated with the continuing decline in the value of residential land, certain loans in which we invested in our LandCap joint venture are either distressed or non-performing. These loans will generally have a greater risk of loss to us and our ability to generate positive returns on these loans will be subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain a discounted payoff from the borrower of these loans in excess of our purchase price and our ability to foreclose and liquidate the asset(s) underlying such loans accretively. Additionally, if loans that we purchase have evidence of deterioration of credit quality at the time of purchase, we will apply the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 03-3 "Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer", or SOP 03-3, to these loans. SOP 03-3 addresses accounting for loans for which it is probable, at the time of our acquisition, that we will be unable to collect all contractual principal and interest. For these loans, the amount representing the excess of cash flows estimated by us at acquisition over the purchase price is accreted into income over the life of a loan. If we cannot reasonably estimate the cash flows that we expect to receive from a 31 Table of Contents loan, then we will first apply any cash received from a loan as a reduction to our carrying value, and any cash received in excess of the carrying value will be recorded as income. Estimating the amount of a loan's future cash flows involves significant judgment. The amount and timing of actual cash flows could differ materially from our estimates. Any decreases in our estimates of expected cash flows from purchased loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 may result in a significant negative adjustment to the amount of revenue that we had previously recorded from a purchased loan. Interest rate fluctuations may reduce the spread we earn on our interest-earning investments and may reduce our net income. Although we seek to match-fund our assets and mitigate the risk associated with future interest rate volatility, we are primarily subject to interest rate risk because we do not hedge our retained equity interest in our floating rate term debt transactions. To the extent a term debt transaction has floating rate assets, our earnings will generally increase with increases in floating interest rates, and decrease with declines in floating interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Our interest rate risk sensitive assets, liabilities and related derivative positions are generally held for non-trading purposes. As of December 31, 2008, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to our variable rate assets would increase our annual interest income by approximately $30.8 million offset by an increase in our interest expense of approximately $25.1 million on our variable rate liabilities. Similarly, a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would decrease our annual interest income by the same net amount. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains and could result in losses. To limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations, we may employ hedging strategies, including engaging in interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts as well as engaging in short sales of securities or of future contracts. The use of these types of derivatives to hedge our assets and liabilities carries certain risks, including the risks that: •losses on a hedge position will reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders; •losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; •a hedge may not perform its intended use of offsetting losses on an investment; •the counterparties with which we trade may cease making markets and quoting prices in such instruments, which may render us unable to enter into an offsetting transaction with respect to an open position; and •the counterparties with which we trade may experience business failures, which would most likely result in a default. Default by such counterparty may result in the loss of unrealized profits, which were expected to offset losses on our assets. Such defaults may also result in a loss of income on swaps or caps, which income was expected to be available to cover our debt service payments. Our results of operations may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. If we anticipate that the income from any such hedging transaction will not be qualifying income for REIT income test purposes, we may conduct some or all of our hedging activities through a corporate subsidiary that would be subject to corporate income taxation. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent and make riskier investments. We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the 32 Table of Contents investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to significant competition, and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly traded REITs, private REITs, investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds and private opportunity funds. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. Risks Relating to Investments in Healthcare Assets We have limited experience with owning and operating senior housing and healthcare facilities. In May 2006, we entered the healthcare-related net lease business by forming a joint venture with Chain Bridge Capital LLC to invest in senior housing and healthcare-related net leased assets, called Wakefield. In 2008, we brought another equity partner, Inland American Real Estate Trust, Inc., or Inland American, into the Wakefield venture by selling a $100 million preferred partnership interest to Inland American, convertible into an approximate 42% interest in the venture. As of December 31, 2008, we owned 51.6% of Wakefield and consolidated the venture in our financial statements. Although the principals of Chain Bridge have extensive experience owning and investing in senior and assisted living facilities, this is a relatively new business for us with risks that differ from those to which we have been subject historically. There can be no assurance that we have the skills needed to run this business profitably and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain the principles of Chain Bridge. The senior living industry is highly competitive and we expect it to become more competitive. The senior living industry is highly competitive, and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. The operators of the facilities we own or lend to compete with numerous other companies that provide long-term care alternatives such as home healthcare agencies, life care at home, facility-based service programs, retirement communities, convalescent centers and other independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing providers, including not-for-profit entities. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the independent living and assisted living segments of the senior living industry are not substantial, although there are generally barriers to the development of skilled nursing facilities. Consequently, our operators may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to attract new residents, raise resident fees or expand their businesses, which could adversely adverse effect our revenues and earnings. Operators of independent care, assisted living and memory care facilities must comply with the rules and regulations of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations and are subject to new legislative developments. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local licensing requirements, facility inspections, reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other laws, regulations and rules. Any failure to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect our operators' ability to operate the facilities that we own or finance. Healthcare operators are subject to federal and state laws and regulations that govern financial and other arrangements between healthcare providers. These laws prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to, or the recommendation of, a particular provider for medical products and services. They also require compliance with a variety of safety, health, staffing and other requirements relating to the design and conditions of the licensed facility and quality of care provided. 33 Table of Contents These regulations may also enable the regulatory agency to place liens on the property which may be senior to our secured position. Possible sanctions for violation of these laws and regulations include loss of licensure or certification, the imposition of civil monetary and criminal penalties, and potential exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Failure of our operators to comply with these rules or regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, this area of the law currently is subject to intense scrutiny. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted that could require changes in the design of the properties and our joint venture's operations and thus increase the costs of these operations. A significant portion of our leases expire in the same year. A significant portion of the leases that we have entered into expire in 2017, which coincides with the debt maturities on the properties subject to these leases. As a result, we could be subject to a sudden and material change in value of the assets in Wakefield and available cash flow from Wakefield in the event that these leases are not renewed or in the event that we are not able to extend or refinance the loans on the properties that are subject to these leases. State law may limit the availability of certain types of healthcare facilities for our acquisition or development and may limit our ability to replace obsolete properties. Certificate-of-Need laws may impose investment barriers for us. Some states regulate the supply of some types of retirement facilities, such as skilled nursing facilities or assisted living facilities, through Certificate-of-Need laws. A Certificate-of-Need typically is a written statement issued by a state regulatory agency evidencing a community's need for a new, converted, expanded or otherwise significantly modified retirement facility or service which is regulated pursuant to the state's statutes. These restrictions may create barriers to entry or expansion and may limit the availability of properties for our acquisition or development. In addition, we may invest in properties which cannot be replaced if they become obsolete unless such replacement is approved or exempt under a Certificate-of-Need law. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire. We are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans provide us the right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment and other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Our operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present 34 Table of Contents litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. Risks Related to the Investment Management Business The organization and management of our Securities Fund, and any future funds that we raise, may create conflicts of interest. In addition to managing the assets of our term debt transactions, we manage an off-balance sheet fund, or our Securities Fund, which we formed in July 2007, to prospectively conduct our real estate securities investment business. We are the manager, and have a combined general partner and limited partner interest of 53.1% in the Securities Fund at December 31, 2008. We may in the future manage other third party funds or other investment vehicles. The Securities Fund, along with any new funds we may manage, which together are referred to as our "Funds," will hold assets that we determine should be acquired by the Funds and doing so may create conflicts of interest, including between investors in these Funds and our shareholders, since many investment opportunities that are suitable for us may also be suitable for the Funds. Additionally, our executives and other real estate and debt finance professionals may face conflicts of interest in allocating their time among NorthStar, our Securities Fund and any other third party funds we may manage. Although as a company we will seek to make these decisions in a manner that we believe is fair and consistent with the operative legal documents governing these investment vehicles, the transfer or allocation of these assets may give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation as a company could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business and our ability to attract investors for future vehicles. Difficult market conditions and the collapse of the CMBS market have adversely affected our Securities Fund, which may impact our ability to raise capital for future Funds and may cause investor redemptions. The current global recession, deterioration of the capital markets and credit spread widening and corresponding lower mark-to-market adjustments to the assets in the Securities Fund have adversely affected the performance of our Securities Fund. Due to the foregoing, raising capital for future Funds could be more difficult and redemptions within the Securities Fund have occurred and are expected to occur in the future. The creation and management of Funds and other investment vehicles could require us to register with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act and subject us to costs and constraints that we are not currently subject to. A consequence of creating and managing Funds and other investment vehicles, including term debt vehicles, is that we may be required to register with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act. Registered investment advisers must establish policies and procedures for their operations and make regulatory filings. The Investment Advisers Act and the rules and regulations under this Act generally grant the SEC broad administrative powers, including, in some cases, the power to limit or restrict doing business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. These laws and regulations have increased, and could further increase, our expenses and require us to devote substantial time and effort to legal and regulatory compliance issues. In addition, the regulatory environment in which investment advisors operate changes frequently and regulations have increased 35 Table of Contents significantly in recent years. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. We have used, and may in the future use, capital to preserve the existence of our Securities Fund and any future third party funds we manage. Our Securities Fund is, and any future third party funds we manage may be, subject to mark-to-market volatility and may at times be subject to margin calls or require other financial assistance from us. We have, and may in the future, provide all or a portion of the capital necessary to preserve our Funds, including by satisfying margin calls if the Funds are not able to meet such obligations without our assistance or by providing credit or credit support to the Funds. Investors in our Securities Fund and, likely, any new third party funds, may redeem their investments after a stated lock-up period or elect to remove us as manager of the Funds at any time without cause upon approval of 50% of the limited partners of our Funds. Investors in our Securities Fund are, and investors in any future third party funds will likely be, able to redeem their investments on an annual or quarterly basis, subject to the applicable Fund's specific redemption provisions, and remove us as manager of the Fund without cause upon approval of 50% of the limited partners in the Fund (excluding us). Investors may decide to move their capital away from our Funds to other investments or remove us as manager of the Funds for any number of reasons in addition to poor investment performance. Factors which could result in investors leaving our Funds include changes in interest rates which make other investments more attractive, changes in investor perception regarding the Fund's focus or alignment of interest, unhappiness with changes in or broadening of a Fund's investment strategy, changes in our reputation, and departures or changes in responsibilities of key investment professionals. In a declining financial market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our assets under management could accelerate. The decrease in our Funds' revenues that would result from significant redemptions in our Funds may have a material effect on our business by reducing our management fees and incentive income, and could result in significant reputational damage as well. If we were removed as a manager of any Fund, we would no longer be entitled to receive management or incentive fees, which may have a material effect on our business, and such removal could also cause significant reputational damage to us. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our Funds may be subject to significant subjectivity and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our Funds. There may not be readily-ascertainable market prices for illiquid investments in our Funds. The value of the investments of our Funds will be determined periodically by us based on the fair value of such investments. The fair value of investments is determined using a number of methodologies. The valuation policies of the Securities Fund are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment, the length of time the investment has been held, the trading price of securities, restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we may use in valuing individual investments will be based on a variety of estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and actual results related to the investment therefore often vary materially as a result of the inaccuracy of such assumptions or estimates. There are risks in using prime brokers and custodians. Our Funds will likely depend on the services of prime brokers and custodians to carry out certain securities transactions. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker and/or custodian, our Funds might not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the prime broker and custodian's unsecured creditors in relation to assets which the prime broker or custodian borrows, lends 36 Table of Contents or otherwise uses. In addition, the Funds' cash held with a prime broker or custodian will not be segregated from the prime broker's or custodian's own cash, and the Funds will therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto. We are subject to certain counterparty risks in our Securities Fund. We have entered into credit default swaps with counterparties. As a result of the global credit crises, there is a risk that counterparties could fail, shut down, file for bankruptcy or be unable to pay out contracts. The failure of a counterparty that holds collateral that we post in connection with certain credit default swaps could result in the loss of such collateral. Risks Related to Our Company Our ability to operate our business successfully would be harmed if key personnel with long-standing business relationships terminate their employment with us. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our key personnel, including certain of our executive officers and Mr. Hamamoto in particular. For instance, the extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and nature of the relationships they have developed with real estate developers and financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. Our executive officers have significant real estate investment experience. We cannot assure you of their continued employment with us. The loss of services of certain of our executive officers could harm our business and our prospects. Our Board of Directors has and will likely in the future adopt certain incentive plans to create incentives that will allow us to retain and attract the services of key employees. These incentive plans may be tied to the performance of our common stock and as a result of the decline in our stock price, we may be unable to motivate and retain our management and these other employees. Our inability to motivate and retain these individuals could also harm our business and our prospects. Additionally, competition for experienced real estate professionals could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract qualified employees, which could result in higher compensation expenses to us. Our ability to issue equity awards to employees as compensation could be impacted, which will require greater cash compensation in relation to previous levels of cash compensations. We have historically paid a substantial portion of our overall compensation in the form of equity awards. Currently, we do not have availability under our incentive plans to issue a meaningful amount of equity awards to our employees. We will likely seek shareholder approval for additional equity awards, but may be required to compensate our employees in a greater proportion of cash compared to equity awards. Because adjusted funds from operations, or AFFO, excludes equity based compensation expense, payment of higher levels of cash relative to equity awards will have a negative impact on our AFFO and reduce our liquidity position. Additionally, the lack of availability of equity awards could impact our ability to retain employees as equity awards historically have been a significant component of our long-term incentives. If our risk management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. However, our risk management techniques and strategies may not fully mitigate the risk exposure of our operations in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in our operations or to seek adequate risk-adjusted returns. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management". 37 Table of Contents The use of estimates and valuations may be different from actual results, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, accounting for goodwill, establishing provisions for potential losses that may arise from loans that we make and potential litigation liability. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our real estate securities and term debt equity. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than our estimate of their current fair value. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual values and results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. We believe AFFO is an appropriate measure of our operating performance; however, in certain instances AFFO may not be reflective of actual economic results. We utilize AFFO as a measure of our operating performance and believe that it is useful to investors because it facilitates an understanding of our operating performance after adjustment for certain non-cash expenses, such as real estate depreciation, equity based compensation and unrealized gains/losses from mark-to-market adjustments. Additionally, AFFO serves as a good measure of our operating performance because it facilitates evaluation of our company without the effects of selected items required in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, that may not necessarily be indicative of current operating performance and that may not accurately compare our operating performance between periods. Nonetheless, in certain instances AFFO may not necessarily be reflective of our actual economic results. For example, if a CMBS position that we purchased at par in a given year is marked down at the end of such year and then sold the subsequent year at a price above the marked down price, but less than par, we would still have a gain for purposes of AFFO between the difference of the year-end mark and the amount that we sold the CMBS for, even though we would have suffered an economic loss on the CMBS position. Our book value would, however, accurately reflect the economic loss because the decrease in value of the CMBS investment in its year of purchase would have been recorded as an unrealized loss in our income statement. Conversely, if we repurchase, for example, one of our issued CDO bonds for 50% of par in a given year and if such CDO bond were marked below 50% of par at the end of the previous year, for AFFO purposes we would recognize a realized loss on retirement of debt from the repurchase even though there is a positive economic impact to the retirement of the debt. Consistent with the prior example, while our book value would properly reflect the economic benefit from the debt repurchase because the decrease in value of the debt would have been recorded as an unrealized gain in the prior year, the impact to AFFO would not be reflective of actual economic results. GAAP requirements and our mark-to-market adjustments of our liabilities under SFAS 159 in particular, do not necessarily provide a precise economic reflection of our shareholders' equity. Pursuant to SFAS 159, we have elected to mark-to-market our liabilities in our real estate term debt transactions, but we do not mark-to-market the corresponding loans, which we hold at par net of any related credit loss reserves. Even if these loans are performing, because of a number of factors, including credit spread widening and concerns over commercial real estate generally, a third-party would not likely be willing to pay par for such loans. Therefore, our carrying value for these loans is likely above their current economic value. Additionally, while we have liabilities that are marked below the principal amount that we owe on such liabilities, which correspondingly increases our shareholders' equity, absent repurchasing such liabilities at a discount we will be required to repay the full par 38 Table of Contents amount of such liabilities at maturity or upon a liquidation of the underlying collateral or our company. As a result of the foregoing, our shareholders' equity is and will likely continue to not necessarily be reflective of current economic or liquidation value. Our dividend policy is subject to change. On a quarterly basis, our Board of Directors determines an appropriate common stock dividend based upon numerous factors, including REIT qualification requirements, the amount of cash flows provided by operating activities, availability of existing cash balances, borrowing capacity under existing credit agreements, access to cash in the capital markets and other financing sources, our view of our ability to realize gains in the future through appreciation in the value of our assets, general economic conditions and economic conditions that more specifically impact our business or prospects. Although we have significantly reduced the cash portion of our first quarter 2009 dividend relative to prior periods, future dividend levels are subject to further adjustment based upon any one or more of the risk factors set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as other factors that our Board of Directors may, from time to time, deem relevant to consider when determining an appropriate common stock dividend. We are highly dependent on information systems, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. As a financial services firm, our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term "investment securities," among other things, are securities issued by majority owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses through subsidiaries, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception from the definition of "investment company" in Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own directly, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through these subsidiaries. We believe that neither our operating partnership nor the subsidiary REIT through which we hold the substantial majority of our investments are investment companies because each of them satisfy the 40% test of Section 3(a)(1)(C). We must monitor their holdings to ensure that the value of their investment securities does not exceed 40% of their respective total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Certain of our other subsidiaries do not satisfy the 40% test, but instead rely on exceptions and exemptions from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act that either limits the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or the manner in which these subsidiaries may acquire and sell assets. For instance, certain of our term debt transactions rely on the exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act provided by Rule 3a-7 thereunder, which is available for certain structured financing vehicles. This exemption limits the ability of these term debt transactions to sell their assets and reinvest the proceeds from asset sales. Our subsidiary that invests in net lease 39 Table of Contents properties relies on the exception from the definition of "investment company" provided by Sections 3(c)(6) and 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, and certain of our other term debt transactions similarly rely on the 3(c)(5)(C) exception from the definition of "investment company." These provisions exempt companies that primarily invest in real estate, mortgages and certain other qualifying real estate assets. When a term debt transaction relies on the exception from the definition of "investment company" provided by 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, the term debt transaction is limited in the types of real estate related assets that it could invest in. Our subsidiaries that engage in operating businesses and satisfy the 40% test are also not subject to the Investment Company Act. If the combined value of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception provided by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own directly exceeds 40% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of our control. This could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's shares or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the Board of Directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the Board of Directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the Board of Directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. 40 Table of Contents The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the Board of Directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has exempted any business combinations between us and any person, provided that any such business combination is first approved by our Board of Directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements do not apply to business combinations between us and any of them. As a result, such parties may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions in the statute. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and authorizes our board, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board could establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Maryland law also allows a corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act, and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its Board of Directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to a classified board, unless its charter prohibits such an election. Our charter contains a provision prohibiting such an election to classify our board under this provision of Maryland law. This makes us more vulnerable to a change in control. If our stockholders voted to amend this charter provision and to classify our Board of Directors, the staggered terms of our directors could reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risks Related to Our REIT Tax Status Our failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax and reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a 41 Table of Contents REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our stock. We hold a substantial majority of our assets in a majority owned subsidiary, which we refer to as our private REIT. Our private REIT is organized to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our private REIT must also meet all of the REIT qualification tests under the Internal Revenue Code. If our private REIT did not qualify as a REIT, it is likely that we would also not qualify as a REIT. If, for any reason, we failed to qualify as a REIT and we were not entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to so qualify. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow funds to make distributions to stockholders or otherwise depend on external sources of capital to fund such distributions. To qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we may elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain. In that case, a shareholder would be taxed on its proportionate share of our undistributed long-term gain and would receive a credit or refund for its proportionate share of the tax we paid. A shareholder, including a tax-exempt or foreign shareholder, would have to file a federal income tax return to claim that credit or refund. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. While we intend to continue to make distributions sufficient to avoid imposition of the 4% tax, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. We anticipate that distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income, although a portion of such distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gain to the extent attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that such distribution exceeds our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. We currently intend to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and avoid the 4% nondeductible excise tax with distributions that are payable in cash or our stock. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes due to, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums. In addition, our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders as a result of investments in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets (for example, if a borrower defers the payment of interest in cash pursuant to a contractual right or otherwise). If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to distribute enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Because of the distribution requirement, it is unlikely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund future capital needs, we likely will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including both debt and equity financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our stock. 42 Table of Contents We could fail to qualify as a REIT if the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenges our treatment of our mezzanine loans and repurchase agreements. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, disagrees with the application of these provisions to our assets or transactions, including assets we have owned and past transactions, our REIT qualification could be jeopardized. For example, IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from it will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. Moreover, our mezzanine loans typically do not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in mezzanine loans in a manner that we believe will enable us to continue to satisfy the REIT gross income and asset tests. In addition, we have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our mortgage assets to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we will be treated for federal income tax purposes as the owner of the mortgage assets that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that we transferred record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the mortgage assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our ability to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. Even if the IRS were to disagree with one or more of our interpretations and we were treated as having failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, we could maintain our REIT qualification if our failure was excused under certain statutory savings provisions. However, there can be no guarantee that we would be entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions if we failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, and even if we were entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions, we could be required to pay a penalty tax. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. As discussed above, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Additionally, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise attractive to us in order to satisfy the source of income requirements for qualifying as a REIT. 43 Table of Contents We must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets), and no more than 20% (or, beginning with our 2009 taxable year, 25%) of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences, unless certain relief provisions apply. As a result, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of profit maximization and may require us to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations effectively. Our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. Any hedging income earned by a taxable REIT subsidiary would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our mortgage, preferred equity or other investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a stockholder. Legislation enacted in 2003 and 2006 generally reduced the federal income tax rate on most dividends paid by corporations to investors taxed at individual rates to a maximum of 15% through the end of 2010. REIT dividends, with limited exceptions, do not benefit from the rate reduction, because a REITs income is generally not subject to corporate level tax. As such, this legislation could cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to investors taxed at individual rates than shares in REITs and could have an adverse effect on the value of our stock. The stock ownership restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help 44 Table of Contents insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person, including entities, may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of stock or more than 9.8% in value or number (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. The board may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Despite these restrictions, it is possible that there will be five or fewer individuals who own more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders. Our dividends that are attributable to excess inclusion income will likely increase the tax liability of our tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders, and stockholders with net operating losses. In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income as defined in Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to our stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt entity under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. A foreign stockholder would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their net operating losses. Although the law is not entirely clear, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on our excess inclusion income allocated to "disqualified organizations" (generally tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income) that own our stock in record name. To the extent that our stock owned by "disqualified organizations" is held in street name by a broker/dealer or other nominee, the broker/dealer or nominee would be liable for a tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of the "disqualified organizations." A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are "disqualified organizations." Excess inclusion income could result if a REIT held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, excess inclusion income also may be generated if a REIT issues debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments of these obligations bear a relationship to the payments that the REIT received on mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities securing those debt obligations. Although we do not hold any REMIC residual interests, we anticipate that certain of the term debt transactions conducted by our private REIT will produce excess inclusion income that will be allocated to our stockholders. Accordingly, we expect that a portion of our dividends will constitute excess inclusion income, which will likely increase the tax liability of tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders, stockholders with net operating losses, regulated investment companies and other pass-through entities whose record name owners are disqualified organizations, and brokers/dealers and other nominees who hold stock on behalf of disqualified organizations. 45 Table of Contents The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. If we securitize loans in a manner that is, for federal income tax purposes, treated as a sale of the loans we may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Because of the inability to offset capital losses against ordinary income, we may have REIT taxable income, which we would be required to distribute to our stockholders, in a year in which we are not profitable under GAAP principles or other economic measures. We may deduct our capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains, and not against our ordinary income, in computing our REIT taxable income for a given taxable year. Consequently, we could have REIT taxable income, and would be required to distribute such income to our stockholders, in a year in which we are not profitable under GAAP principles or other economic measures. We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries. We have elected to treat several Cayman Islands companies, including issuers in term debt transactions, as taxable REIT subsidiaries. We intend to treat certain income inclusions received with respect to our equity investments in those foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. Because there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. If our foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and that they would have available to pay their creditors. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging that tax treatment, it would greatly reduce the amount that those foreign taxable REIT subsidiaries would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 46 Table of Contents 