Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the various other factors identified in or incorporated by reference into any other documents filed by us with the SEC in evaluating our company and our business. The risks discussed herein can adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Interest rate fluctuations may cause losses. We believe our primary interest rate exposure relates to our mortgage loans, MBS and variable-rate debt, as well as the interest rate swaps and caps that we utilize for risk management purposes. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense we incur in financing these assets. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect our ability to acquire mortgage loans or MBS, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our assets would not change as rapidly. This would adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between income received from our assets, net of credit losses, and our financing costs. We anticipate that in most cases, for any period during which our assets are not match-funded, the income from such assets will adjust more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. We anticipate that increases in interest rates will tend to decrease our net income. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income would result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may experience a decline in the market value of our assets. The market value of the interest-bearing assets that we have acquired and intend to continue to acquire, most notably MBS and purchased prime ARM loans and any related hedging instruments, may move inversely with changes in interest rates. We anticipate that increases in interest rates will tend to decrease our net income. A decline in the market value of our investment securities, such as the decline we experienced during March 2008, primarily as a result of news of potential security liquidations, may adversely affect us, particularly where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those investment securities. In such case, the lenders may require, and have required, us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we may have to rapidly liquidate assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so and we may still be unable to post the required collateral, further harming our liquidity and subjecting us to liability to our lenders for the declines in the market values of the collateral. For example, in March 2008, due in part to decreases in the market value of certain of our investment securities and the anticipated increase in collateral requirements by our lenders as a result of such decrease in the market value of such securities, we elected to increase our liquidity by reducing our leverage through the sale of an aggregate of approximately $598.9 million of Agency MBS, which resulted in an aggregate loss of approximately $15.4 million. If we liquidate investment securities at prices lower than the amortized costs of such investment securities, we will incur losses. 12 Table of Contents Changes in prepayment rates on our investment securities may decrease our net interest income. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the investment securities that we acquire. We will generally receive principal distributions from the principal payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When borrowers repay their mortgage loans faster than expected, this will result in prepayments that are faster than expected on the investment securities. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Faster than expected prepayments could adversely affect our profitability, including in the following ways: · We have purchased, and may purchase in the future, investment securities that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time of purchase. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we are required to pay a premium over the face amount of the security to acquire the security. In accordance with accounting rules, we amortize this premium over the anticipated term of the mortgage security. If principal distributions are received faster than anticipated, we would be required to expense the premium faster. We may not be able to reinvest the principal distributions received on these investment securities in similar new mortgage-related securities and, to the extent that we can do so, the effective interest rates on the new mortgage-related securities will likely be lower than the yields on the mortgages that were prepaid. · We also may acquire investment securities at a discount. If the actual prepayment rates on a discount mortgage security are slower than anticipated at the time of purchase, we would be required to recognize the discount as income more slowly than anticipated. This would adversely affect our profitability. Slower than expected prepayments also may adversely affect the market value of a discount mortgage security. A disproportionate rise in short-term interest rates as compared to longer-term interest rates may adversely affect our income. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” Ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than longer-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. Because we expect our investments, on average, generally will bear interest based on longer-term rates than our borrowings, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our net assets. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields on the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur operating losses. A flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect prepayment rates on and supply of our investment securities. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. We believe that when the yield curve is relatively flat, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into hybrid mortgages with longer initial fixed rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our investment securities to experience faster prepayments. In addition, a flatter yield curve generally leads to fixed-rate mortgage rates that are closer to the interest rates available on hybrid ARMs and ARMs, possibly decreasing the supply of the investment securities we seek to acquire. At times, short-term interest rates may increase and exceed long-term interest rates, causing an inverted yield curve. When the yield curve is inverted, fixed-rate mortgage rates may approach or be lower than hybrid ARMs or ARM rates, further increasing prepayments on, and negatively impacting the supply of, our investment securities. Increases in prepayments on our portfolio will cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. Interest rate mismatches between our adjustable-rate agency securities and our borrowings used to fund our purchases of these securities may reduce our income during periods of changing interest rates. Our borrowings have interest rates that adjust more frequently than the interest rate indices and repricing terms of the investment securities we seek to acquire and currently hold in our portfolio. Accordingly, if short-term interest rates increase, our borrowing costs may increase faster than the interest rates on our investment securities adjust. As a result, in a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss. Our current portfolio is comprised primarily of, and we intend that most of the investment securities we acquire in the future will be, adjustable-rate securities. This means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in an identified short-term interest rate index. In most cases, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of the investment securities that we acquire and our borrowings will not be identical, thereby potentially creating an interest rate mismatch between our investments and our borrowings. While the historical spread between relevant short-term interest rate indices has been relatively stable, there have been periods when the spread between these indices was volatile. During periods of changing interest rates, these interest rate index mismatches could reduce our net income or produce a net loss, and adversely affect our dividends and the market price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental, monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Interest rate caps on our adjustable-rate investment securities may reduce our income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. The mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate investment securities typically will be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Additionally, we may invest in ARMs with an initial “teaser” rate that will provide us with a lower than market interest rate initially, which may accordingly have lower interest rate caps than ARMs without such teaser rates. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during a given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of a mortgage loan. If these interest rate caps apply to the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate investment securities, the interest distributions made on the related securities will be similarly impacted. Our borrowings may not be subject to similar interest rate caps. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while caps would limit the interest distributions on our adjustable-rate investment securities. Further, some of the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate investment securities may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest on those loans being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we could receive less interest distributions on adjustable-rate investment securities, particularly those with an initial teaser rate, than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could lower our net interest income, cause us to suffer a net loss or cause us to incur additional borrowings to fund interest payments during periods of rising interest rates or sell our investments at a loss. Continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the mortgage-related securities in which we invest and our ability to finance or sell any securities that we acquire. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties and changes in economic conditions, including recent defaults, credit losses and liquidity concern. Securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have had a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies, and many MBS have been downgraded by the Rating Agencies since the 2007 second quarter. In addition, during March 2008, news of potential security liquidations increased the volatility of many financial assets, including Agency MBS and other high-quality MBS assets. As a result, values for MBS assets, including some of our Agency MBS and other AAA-rated non-Agency MBS, have been negatively impacted. Further increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and MBS markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of the investment securities in our portfolio. Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac guarantee the payments on the Agency MBS we purchase even if the borrowers of the underlying mortgages default on their payments. However, rising delinquencies, potential security liquidations or liquidity concerns could negatively affect the value of our investment securities, including Agency MBS, or create market uncertainty about their true value. We use our investment securities as collateral for our financings. Any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing arrangements already in place. At the same time, market uncertainty about residential mortgages in general could depress the market for mortgage-related securities, including Agency MBS, making it more difficult for us to sell any securities we own on favorable terms, or at all. If market conditions result in a decline in available purchasers, or the value, of any of the securities we hold in or acquire for our portfolio, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Competition may prevent us from acquiring mortgage-related assets at favorable yields and that would negatively impact our profitability. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring mortgage-related assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than us. As a result, we may not in the future be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs which, would adversely affect our profitability. 14 Table of Contents Because assets we acquire may experience periods of illiquidity, we may lose profits or be prevented from earning capital gains if we cannot sell the investment securities in our portfolio at an opportune time. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of the investment securities held in our portfolio at advantageous times or in a timely manner because these mortgage-related assets generally experience periods of illiquidity. The lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. As a result, the illiquidity of mortgage-related assets may cause us to lose profits and the ability to earn capital gains. We currently leverage our equity, which will exacerbate any losses we incur on our current and future investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We currently leverage our equity through borrowings, generally through the use of repurchase agreements and CDOs, which are obligations issued in multiple classes secured by an underlying portfolio of securities, and we may, in the future, utilize bank credit facilities and other forms of borrowing. The amount of leverage we incur varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and our lenders’ estimates of the value of our portfolio’s cash flow. The return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Further, the leverage on our equity may exacerbate any losses we incur. Our debt service payments will reduce the net income available for distributions to our stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to sale to satisfy our debt obligations. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to margin calls under our repurchase agreements which we will have to satisfy. Significant decreases in asset valuation, such as occurred during March 2008, could lead to increased margin calls, and we may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls. We have a target overall leverage amount of eight to 12 times our equity, but there is no established limitation, other than may be required by our financing arrangements, on our leverage ratio or on the aggregate amount of our borrowings. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our MBS portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are limited in our ability to leverage our assets, the returns on our portfolio may be harmed. A key element of our strategy is our use of leverage to increase the size of our MBS portfolio in an attempt to enhance our returns. To finance our MBS investment portfolio, we generally seek to borrow between eight and 12 times the amount of our equity. At December 31, 2007 our leverage ratio for our MBS investment portfolio, which we define as our outstanding indebtedness under repurchase agreements divided by total stockholders’ equity, was 17.1 to one. This definition of the leverage ratio is consistent with the manner in which the credit providers under our repurchase agreement calculate our leverage. The Company also has $45 million of subordinated trust preferred securities outstanding and $417.0 million of collateralized debt obligations outstanding both of which are not dependent on market values of pledged securities or changing credit conditions by our lenders. Our repurchase agreements are not currently committed facilities, meaning that the counterparties to these agreements may at any time choose to restrict or eliminate our future access to the facilities and we have no other committed credit facilities through which we may leverage our equity. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 15 Table of Contents The Company's loan delinquencies may increase as a result of significantly increased monthly payments required from ARM borrowers after the initial fixed period. The scheduled increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans may result in higher delinquency rates on mortgage loans and could have a material adverse affect on our net income and results of operations. This increase in borrowers' monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their mortgage loans may no longer be able to fund available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. A decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance their loans or sell their homes. In addition, these mortgage loans may have prepayment premiums that inhibit refinancing. We may be required to repurchase loans if we breached representations and warranties from loan sale transactions, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. Loans from our discontinued mortgage lending operations that were sold to third parties under agreements include numerous representations and warranties regarding the manner in which the loan was originated, the property securing the loan and the borrower. If these representations or warranties are found to have been breached, we may be required to repurchase such loan. We may be forced to resell these repurchased loans at a loss, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are dependent upon the efforts of James J. Fowler, the Chairman of our board of directors. In addition, we are dependent upon the services of David A. Akre, our Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, and Steven R. Mumma, our Co-Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any of these individuals or their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. Risk Related to Our Debt Financing We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements and that would harm our profitability. Currently, a significant portion of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. If the interest rates on these agreements increase, that would harm our profitability. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon: · the movement of interest rates; · the availability of financing in the market; and · the value and liquidity of our mortgage-related assets. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to renew our borrowings at favorable rates, it may force us to sell assets and our profitability may be adversely affected. Since we rely primarily on borrowings under repurchase agreements to finance our mortgage-backed securities, our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms and on our ability to renew or replace maturing borrowings on a continuous basis. In response to the recent mortgage securities market disruption, investors and financial institutions that lend in the mortgage securities repurchase market, including the lenders under our repurchase agreements, have further tightened lending standards in an effort to reduce the leverage of their borrowers. While the haircut required by our lenders increased in 2007, primarily on non-Agency MBS, during March 2008, we have experienced further increases in the amount of haircut required to obtain financing for both our Agency MBS and non-Agency MBS. Our ability to enter into repurchase agreements in the future will depend on the market value of our mortgage-backed securities pledged to secure the specific borrowings, the availability of adequate financing and other conditions existing in the lending market at that time. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings on favorable terms, we would be forced to sell some of our assets under possibly adverse market conditions, which may adversely affect our profitability. Possible market developments could reduce the amount of liquidity available to us and could cause our lenders to require us to pledge additional assets as collateral. If we are unable to obtain sufficient short-term financing or our assets are insufficient to meet the collateral requirements, then we may be compelled to liquidate particular assets at an inopportune time. Possible market developments, including a sharp rise in interest rates, a change in prepayment rates or increasing market concern about the value or liquidity of one or more types of mortgage-related assets in which our portfolio is concentrated may reduce the market value of our portfolio, which may reduce the amount of liquidity available to us or may cause our lenders to require additional collateral. For example, in March 2008, news of potential security liquidations by certain of our competitors negatively impacted the market value of certain of the investment securities in our portfolio. In connection with this market disruption and the anticipated increase in collateral requirements by our lenders as a result of such decrease in the market value of such securities, we elected to increase our liquidity by reducing our leverage through the sale of an aggregate of approximately $598.9 million of Agency MBS, which resulted in an aggregate loss of approximately $15.4 million. If we are unable to obtain sufficient short-term financing or our lenders start to require additional collateral, we may be compelled to liquidate our assets at a disadvantageous time similar to our sales in March 2008, thus harming our operating results, net profitability and ability to make distributions to you. Adverse developments involving major financial institutions or involving one of our lenders could result in a rapid reduction in our ability to borrow and adversely affect our business and profitability. The recent turmoil in the financial markets as it relates to the solvency of major financial institutions has raised concerns that a material adverse development involving one or more major financial institutions could result in our lenders reducing our access to funds available under our repurchase agreements. Because all of our repurchase agreements are uncommitted, such a disruption could cause our lenders to determine to reduce or terminate our access to future borrowings, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we would incur losses. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell securities to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is referred to as the “haircut”), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Our repurchase agreements contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us. 17 Table of Contents The Company's liquidity may be adversely affected by margin calls under its repurchase agreements because they are dependent in part on the lenders' valuation of the collateral securing the financing. Each of these repurchase agreements allows the lender, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to reflect market value. If a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring the Company to post additional collateral to cover the decrease. When the Company is subject to such a margin call, it must provide the lender with additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings with minimal notice. Any such margin call could harm the Company's liquidity, results of operation and financial condition. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, the Company may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause it to incur further losses and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. We use derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps and caps, to hedge our liabilities and this has certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedging transaction will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders and that such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. Our board of directors has adopted a general policy with respect to the use of derivatives, and which generally allows us to use derivatives when we deem appropriate for risk management purposes, but does not set forth specific guidelines. To the extent consistent with maintaining our status as a REIT, we may use derivatives, including interest rate swaps and caps, options, term repurchase contracts, forward contracts and futures contracts, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. However, a hedge may not be effective in eliminating the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives in a hedging transaction. Our use of hedging strategies to mitigate our interest rate exposure may not be effective and may expose us to counterparty risks. In accordance with our operating policies, we may pursue various types of hedging strategies, including swaps, caps and other derivative transactions, to seek to mitigate or reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and financing sources used and other changing market conditions. No hedging strategy, however, can completely insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed or that the implementation of any hedging strategy would have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Certain of the U.S. federal income tax requirements that we must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT may limit our ability to hedge against such risks. We will not enter into derivative transactions if we believe that they will jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through taxable REIT subsidiaries (or TRSs)) to offset interest rate losses is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. We primarily use swaps to hedge against anticipated future increases in interest rates on our repurchase agreements. Should a swap counterparty be unable to make required payments pursuant to such swap, the hedged liability would cease to be hedged for the remaining term of the swap. In addition, we may be at risk for any collateral held by a hedging counterparty to a swap, should such counterparty become insolvent or file for bankruptcy. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of hedging instruments may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. 18 Table of Contents Since we invest in Agency MBS that are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we are subject to the risk that these U.S. Government-sponsored entities may not be able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations, which may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities. The payments we receive on the Agency MBS in which we invest are guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Unlike the securities issued by Ginnie Mae, the principal and interest on securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not guaranteed by the U.S. Government. The recent economic challenges in the residential mortgage market have affected the financial results of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. For the year ended December 31, 2007, both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac reported substantial losses. Fannie Mae recently stated that it expects losses on guarantees of agency securities to continue and expects significant increases in credit-related expenses and credit losses through 2008. If Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue to suffer significant losses, their ability to honor their respective agency securities guarantees may be adversely affected. Further, any actual or perceived financial challenges at either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could cause the Rating Agencies to downgrade securities issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. On January 9, 2008, Moody’s Investors Service placed Freddie Mac’s A- bank financial strength rating, which measures the likelihood it will require financial assistance from third parties, on review for possible downgrade. Any failure to honor guarantees on agency securities by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or any downgrade of securities issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac by the Rating Agencies could cause a significant decline in the cash flow from, and the value of, any Agency MBS we may own, and we may then be unable to sell or finance Agency MBS on favorable terms or at all. New laws may be passed affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, on the one hand, and the U.S. Government, on the other, which could adversely affect the price of agency securities. Legislation has been and may be proposed to change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, on the one hand, and the U.S. Government, on the other hand, or that requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or limit the amount of guarantees they provide on agency securities. If any such legislation is enacted into law, it may lead to market uncertainty and the actual or perceived impairment in the credit quality of securities issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. This may increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae- and/or Freddie Mac-issued securities. Any legislation requiring Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or for which they guarantee payments on agency securities could adversely affect the availability and pricing of agency securities and therefore, adversely affect the value of our portfolio and our profitability. Our directors have approved broad investment guidelines for us and do not approve each investment we make. Our board of directors has given us substantial discretion to invest in accordance with our broad investment guidelines. Our board of directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our portfolio. However, our board of directors does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our directors rely primarily on information provided to them by our executive officers. Furthermore, transactions entered into by us may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our directors. Our management substantial discretion within our broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets we may decide are proper investments for us. We may change our investment strategy, operating policies and/or asset allocations without stockholder consent. We may change our investment strategy, operating policies and/or asset allocation with respect to investments, acquisitions, leverage, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions at any time without the consent of our stockholders. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and/or credit risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in asset categories different from our historical investments. These changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or our ability to pay dividends or distributions. Risks Related to the Advisory Agreement with JMPAM We are dependent on JMPAM and certain of its key personnel and may not find a suitable replacement if JMPAM terminates the advisory agreement or such key personnel are no longer available to us. Pursuant to the advisory agreement, subject to oversight by our board of directors, JMPAM advises the Managed Subsidiaries. JMPAM identifies, evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors investments of the Managed Subsidiaries, other than assets that we contributed to the Managed Subsidiaries to facilitate compliance with our exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. The departure of any of the senior officers of JMPAM, or of a significant number of investment professionals or principals of JMPAM, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We are subject to the risk that JMPAM will terminate the advisory agreement or that we may deem it necessary to terminate the advisory agreement or prevent certain individuals from performing services for us, and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage the Managed Subsidiaries. Pursuant to the advisory agreement, JMPAM is entitled to receive an advisory fee payable regardless of the performance of the assets of the Managed Subsidiaries. We will pay JMPAM substantial advisory fees, based on the Managed Subsidiaries’ equity capital (as defined in the advisory agreement), regardless of the performance of the Managed Subsidiaries’ portfolio. In addition, pursuant to the advisory agreement, we will pay JMPAM a base advisory fee even if they are not managing any assets of the Managed Subsidiaries' portfolio. JMPAM’s entitlement to non-performance based compensation may reduce its incentive to devote the time and effort of its professionals to seeking profitable opportunities for the Managed Subsidiaries’ portfolio, which could result in a lower performance of their portfolio and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or to achieve capital appreciation. 19 Table of Contents Pursuant to the advisory agreement, JMPAM is entitled to receive an incentive fee, which may induce it to make certain investments, including speculative or high risk investments. In addition to its advisory fee, JMPAM is entitled to receive incentive compensation based, in part, upon the Managed Subsidiaries’ achievement of targeted levels of net income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead JMPAM to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining liquidity and/or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. In addition, JMPAM has broad discretion regarding the types of investments it will make pursuant to the advisory agreement. This could result in increased risk to the value of the Managed Subsidiaries’ invested portfolio. We compete with JMPAM’s other clients for access to JMPAM. JMPAM has sponsored and/or currently manages other pools of capital and investment vehicles with an investment focus that overlaps with the Managed Subsidiaries’ investment focus, and is expected to continue to do so in the future. Furthermore, JMPAM is not restricted in any way from sponsoring or accepting capital from new clients or vehicles, even for investing in asset classes or investment strategies that are similar to, or overlapping with, the Managed Subsidiaries’ asset classes or investment strategies. Therefore, the Managed Subsidiaries compete for access to the benefits that their relationship with JMPAM provides them. For the same reasons, the personnel of JMPAM may be unable to dedicate a substantial portion of their time managing the Managed Subsidiaries’ investments if JMPAM manages any future investment vehicles. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with JMPAM, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. The Managed Subsidiaries may have investments in securities in which JMPAM has an interest. Similarly, JMPAM may invest in securities in which the Managed Subsidiaries have or may have an interest. Although such investments may present conflicts of interest, we nonetheless may pursue and consummate such transactions. Additionally, the Managed Subsidiaries may engage in transactions directly with JMPAM, including the purchase and sale of all or a portion of a portfolio investment. JMPAM may from time to time simultaneously seek to purchase investments for the Managed Subsidiaries and other entities with similar investment objectives for which it serves as a manager, or for its clients or affiliates and has no duty to allocate such investment opportunities in a manner that favors the Managed Subsidiaries. Additionally, such investments for entities with similar investment objectives may be different from those made on the Managed Subsidiaries’ behalf. JMPAM may have economic interests in or other relationships with others in whose obligations or securities the Managed Subsidiaries may invest. Each of such ownership and other relationships may result in securities laws restrictions on transactions in such securities and otherwise create conflicts of interest. In such instances, JMPAM may in its discretion make investment recommendations and decisions that may be the same as or different from those made with respect to the Managed Subsidiaries’ investments and may take actions (or omit to take actions) in the context of these other economic interests or relationships the consequences of which may be adverse to the Managed Subsidiaries’ interests. Although the officers and employees of JMPAM devote as much time to the Managed Subsidiaries as JMPAM deems appropriate, the officers and employees may have conflicts in allocating their time and services among the Managed Subsidiaries and JMPAM's and its affiliates' other accounts. In addition, JMPAM and its affiliates, in connection with their other business activities, may acquire material non-public confidential information that may restrict JMPAM from purchasing securities or selling securities for itself or its clients (including the Managed Subsidiaries) or otherwise using such information for the benefit of its clients or itself. 20 Table of Contents Termination of the advisory agreement may be difficult and costly. Termination of the advisory agreement without cause is subject to several conditions which may make such a termination difficult and costly. The advisory agreement provides that it may only be terminated without cause following the initial three year period upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, based either upon unsatisfactory performance by JMPAM that is materially detrimental to us or upon a determination that the management fee payable to JMPAM is not fair, subject to JMPAM’s right to prevent such a termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees. JMPAM will be paid a termination fee equal to the amount of two times the sum of the average annual base advisory fee and the average annual incentive compensation earned by it during the 24-month period immediately preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the advisory agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate JMPAM without cause. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock is currently quoted for trading on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board which may adversely impact the liquidity of our shares and reduce the value of an investment in our stock. Effective September 11, 2007, our common stock was delisted from quotation on the New York Stock Exchange and on the same day our common stock became quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. We have applied to list our common stock on another national securities exchange, however, we can provide no assurance that our common stock will be approved for listing on another national securities exchange in the future. Our common stock has historically been sporadically or “thinly traded” (meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our shares at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent) and no assurances can be given that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future or that current trading levels will be sustained. A substantial sale, or series of sales, of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. You may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you desire to liquidate your shares. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including, among other things, the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include, among other things: actual or anticipated changes in our current or future financial performance; changes in market interest rates and general market and economic conditions. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to them in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our common stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risk factors described herein. Beginning in July 2007, our board of directors elected to suspend the payment of quarterly dividends on our common stock and, as of the date of this report, has yet to reinstate a quarterly dividend. The board of directors' decision reflected our focus on the elimination of operating losses through the sale of our mortgage lending business with a view to conserving capital to build future earnings from our portfolio management operations. All distributions to our common stockholders will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. 21 Table of Contents Upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Shares, we will be required to issue shares of common stock to holders of our Series A Preferred Shares, which will dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock. Our outstanding Series A Preferred Shares are senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend and liquidation distributions and have voting rights equal to those of our common stock. On January 18, 2008, we completed the issuance and sale of 1.0 million Series A Preferred Shares to a group of investors that are affiliated with JMP Group Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $20.0 million. The Series A Preferred Shares entitle the holders to receive a cumulative dividend of 10% per year, subject to an increase to the extent any future quarterly common stock dividends exceed $0.10 per share. Holders of our Series A Preferred Shares have dividend and liquidating distribution preferences over holders of our common stock, which may negatively affect your ability to receive dividends or liquidating distributions on your Shares. The Series A Preferred Shares also have voting rights equal to the voting rights attached to our common stock, except that each Series A Preferred Share is entitled to a number of votes equal to the conversion rate for the Series A Preferred Shares. The Series A Preferred Shares are convertible into shares of our common stock based on a conversion price of $4.00 per share of common stock, which represents a conversion rate of five shares of common stock for each Series A Preferred Share. Upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Shares, we will issue common stock to the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares, which will dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock. Additionally, the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares have the ability to purchase an additional $20.0 million of Series A Preferred Shares, on identical terms, through April 4, 2008. The Series A Preferred Shares represent approximately 21% of our outstanding capital stock, on a fully diluted basis, as of March 1, 2008, excluding the purchase option that expires on April 4, 2008. Therefore, the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares have voting control over us. The Series A Preferred Shares represent approximately 21% of our outstanding capital stock, on a fully diluted basis, as of March 1, 2008, excluding the purchase option described below. The Series A Preferred Shares also have voting rights equal to the voting rights attached to our common stock, except that each Series A Preferred Share is entitled to a number of votes equal to the conversion rate. In addition, the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares have the ability to purchase an additional $20.0 million of Series A Preferred Shares, on identical terms, through April 4, 2008. Therefore, the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares have voting control over us, which may limit your ability to effect corporate change through the shareholder voting process. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. 22 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. For example, upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Shares, we will be required to issue shares of our common stock to holders of our Series A Preferred Shares, which will increase the number of shares available for sale and dilute existing holders of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Under the registration rights agreement we entered in connection with our private placement of common stock in February 2008, we will pay liquidated damages to the holders of the shares of common stock purchased in that private placement if we breech certain provisions. Under the registration rights agreement we entered in connection with our private placement of common stock in February 2008, we will pay liquidated damages if any of the following events occur: (i) we fail to file a registration statement covering all of the shares sold in that private placement before the filing deadline; (ii) a registration statement covering all of the shares sold in that private placement is not declared effective prior to the effectiveness deadline; (iii) the registration statement is not continuously kept effective, except during an allowable grace period; (iv) a grace period exceeds the allowable grace period under the registration rights agreement; or (v) the shares sold in that private placement may not be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act due to our failure to satisfy the adequate public information condition of Rule 144(c) under the Securities Act. The liquidated damages will be payable in an amount equal to the product of one-thirtieth of (i) 0.5% multiplied by $4.00 for each day that such events shall occur and be continuing during the first 90 days of such non-compliance, and (ii) 1.0% multiplied by $4.00 for each day after the 90th day of such non-compliance for each share sold in the February 2008 private placement which is then held by the investors in that offering. Risks Related to Our Company, Structure and Change in Control Provisions Our Co-Chief Executive Officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control. We have entered into agreements with our Co-Chief Executive Officers, David A. Akre and Steven R. Mumma, that provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends under specified circumstances following a change in control. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of us and thereby prevent or discourage a change in control that might involve a premium price for your shares or otherwise be in your best interest. 23 Table of Contents The stock ownership limit imposed by our charter may inhibit market activity in our common stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code apply to determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our capital stock for purposes of this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). To help ensure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provides that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.9% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. Our board of directors may grant an exemption from that ownership limit in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. This ownership limit could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price for our common stock or would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control which could have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control. These provisions include the following, among others: · our charter provides that, subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, a director may be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors; · our bylaws provide that only our board of directors shall have the authority to amend our bylaws; · under our charter, our board of directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time, in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences; · and rights of any such series, all without the approval of our stockholders; · the Maryland Business Combination Act; and · the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Although our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from application of the Maryland Business Combination Act and our bylaws provide that we are not subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, our board of directors may elect to make the “business combination” statute and “control share” statute applicable to us at any time and may do so without stockholder approval. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe that there are a number of exemptions under the Investment Company Act that are applicable to us. To maintain the exemption, the assets that we acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and the market price for our securities. 24 Table of Contents Tax Risks Related to Our Structure Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and ability to make distributions. We have operated and intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income, and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, if we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Additionally, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary REIT income for that year, (ii) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year, and (iii) 100% of our undistributed REIT taxable income from prior years. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Certain of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between REIT taxable income and available cash. Such assets could include mortgage-backed securities we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable income in advance of the receipt of cash. As a result, our taxable income may exceed our cash available for distribution and the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: · sell assets in adverse market conditions, · borrow on unfavorable terms or · distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments generally through borrowings from financial institutions, along with securitization financings. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable to domestic shareholders that are individuals, trust and estates is 15% (through 2008). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rate applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 