ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As further described herein, our performance and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following specific risks: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY If we consume cash more quickly than expected, and if we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to curtail operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $71.3 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had deferred revenue of approximately $47.2 million relating to research and development activities that are to be performed by us subsequent to December 31, 2007. Our cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately $11.1 million, which included $25.0 million in upfront payments from collaborators. Excluding these receipts, our cash used in operating activities would have been $36.1 million. As the clinical programs we are developing progress, we expect this amount to increase in the future. Clinical and preclinical development of drug candidates is a long, expensive and uncertain process that requires us to raise funds from time to time to support our internal development programs. We expect to raise funds from one or a combination of approaches, which could include public and/or private financing, sale and/or partnering of one or more of our internal programs, and partnering of our internal drug discovery capabilities. We believe that our capital resources will be adequate to fund our operations at their current levels at least through December 31, 2008. However, changes may occur that would cause us to consume available capital resources before that time. Examples of relevant potential changes that could impact our capital resources include: •the costs associated with our drug research and development activities, including the costs associated with our Phase 2 and Phase 1 clinical development programs for our product candidates PS433540 and PS178990 and additional costs we may incur if our development programs are delayed or are more expensive to implement than we currently anticipate; •changes in existing collaborative relationships, including the funding we receive in connection with those relationships; •the progress of our milestone and royalty producing activities; •acquisitions of other businesses or technologies; 21 •the purchase of additional capital equipment; •cash refunds we may be required to make to GSK if, prior to March 24, 2011, we exercise our discretionary termination right under the GSK Agreement; •cash payments we may be required to make to Organon relating to a termination fee if, prior to August 2010, we exercise our discretionary termination right under the Organon Agreement; •cash payments we may be required to make to BMS if we fail to deliver certain compound libraries under the license agreement for the DARA program; •competing technological and market developments; and •the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, and the outcome of related litigation. In May 2007, we raised capital through a public underwritten offering of common stock. Our issuance of approximately 8.1 million shares of common stock in connection with that financing resulted in significant dilution in the percentage ownership of our stockholders that owned stock prior to the financing. We expect to raise funds from one or a combination of approaches, which could include public or private financing, sale and/or partnering of one or more of our internal programs, and partnering of our internal drug discovery capabilities. Capital could be raised through public or private financings involving debt or common stock or other classes of our equity. As of February 29, 2008, we had only approximately 12.9 million shares of common stock authorized and available for issuance to raise additional capital under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Our failure to secure stockholder approval of an amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to authorize additional shares of common stock would make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the issuance of our common stock. Further issuances of equity securities will further dilute our stockholders' percentage ownership. As of February 29, 2008, there were approximately 4,802,000 stock options outstanding granted under our various equity compensation plans and approximately 1,626,000 warrants outstanding, which includes approximately 176,000 warrants issued in connection with the GSK Agreement and approximately 1,450,000 warrants issued in connection with our October 2006 financing transaction. These equity instruments represent approximately 22% of our shares outstanding at February 29, 2008. The significant dilution represented by our outstanding warrants and equity compensation awards may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets that we would not otherwise relinquish. Because PS433540 is in Phase 2 clinical development and PS178990 is in Phase 1 clinical development, there is a high risk that further development and testing will demonstrate that neither compound is suitable for commercialization. In addition, because we exclusively licensed each of PS433540 and PS178990 from BMS, any dispute with BMS may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize those product candidates. We have no products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. PS433540 is in Phase 2 clinical development and PS178990 is in Phase 1 clinical development. We face the substantial risks of failure inherent in developing drugs based on new technologies. Both PS433540 and PS178990 must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities will approve either product candidate for commercial use. Phase 1 clinical trials with PS178990 may not demonstrate that the product candidate is sufficiently safe 22 to warrant our continued development of it, and Phase 2 clinical trials with PS433540 may not demonstrate that it is safe or efficacious with respect to the clinical indications for which we seek to develop it. We will need to conduct significant additional clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of PS433540 and PS178990 to the satisfaction of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities to obtain product approval. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process. It may take us many years to complete clinical trials, and failure can occur at any stage of trials. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Based on results at any stage of preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may decide to discontinue development of PS433540 and PS178990. We do not know whether any future clinical trials of PS433540 or PS178990 will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of PS433540 or PS178990 in their respective development programs will prevent receipt of FDA and foreign regulatory approvals and, ultimately, commercialization. If there is any dispute between us and BMS regarding our rights under the DARA License Agreement, our ability to develop and commercialize PS433540 may be adversely affected. Any loss of our rights from BMS could delay or completely terminate our product development efforts for PS433540 and other DARA compounds licensed from BMS. Similarly, if there is any dispute between us and BMS regarding our rights under the SARM License Agreement and/or performance under the discovery collaboration agreement, our ability to develop and commercialize PS178990 may be adversely affected. Any loss of our rights from BMS could delay or completely terminate our product development efforts for PS178990 and other SARM compounds licensed from BMS. Our development of PS433540 may be adversely impacted if our clinical trials show certain adverse effects reported by other companies in connection with clinical trials of their ERA and ARB product candidates. Abnormal liver function test (LFT) results, which are indicative of potential liver toxicity, have been reported by other companies as complications in their clinical trials of ERA product candidates. Approval of PS433540 may be delayed or ultimately blocked by such concerns. If the results of any of our PS433540 clinical trials indicate abnormal LFTs, we may not receive regulatory approval to market the product candidate and our product candidate, if approved for marketing, may not be able to compete with other products. There can be no assurance that the lack of LFT abnormalities seen with respect to PS433540 prior to now will be confirmed by subsequent clinical trial results. As developed by other companies, ERAs and ARBs have been teratogenic in animals. If approved for marketing, we assume that PS433450 will be subject to a black box warning regarding teratogenicity and therefore may not be able to compete with other products that do not have a similar warning. Prior clinical trials by other companies have also indicated that the ERA therapeutic class may cause peripheral edema (fluid retention) in some patients. Consequently, PS433540 may not be successfully developed as a treatment for heart failure or for use in patients at risk for heart failure and may therefore have a more limited market potential than antihypertensives that are approved for the treatment of heart failure. Our development of PS178990 may be adversely impacted if our clinical trials show certain adverse effects reported in connection with testosterone and other anabolic steroids. 23 Testosterone and other anabolic steroids may cause serious unwanted side effects, including stimulating prostate cancer growth in men and masculinization in women. Approval of PS178990 may be delayed or ultimately blocked by such concerns. If the results of any of our PS178990 clinical trials indicate such stimulation of prostate cancer growth or masculinization, we may not receive regulatory approval to market the product candidate and our product candidate, if approved for marketing, may not be able to compete with other products. We had net losses in recent years and our future profitability is uncertain. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of approximately $47.9 million. The net loss was primarily due to costs incurred in our internal product development efforts, including the costs of developing PS433540, which is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials, and the research and development of our other product candidates. In connection with the acquisition of the SARM program, we recorded a non-cash charge of $9.2 million to proprietary research and development expense. The amount of this charge approximates the fair value of the chemistry resources we are to provide to BMS under the discovery collaboration agreement. We expect to incur losses in future periods and these losses are expected to increase as compared to prior periods as a result of the increased level of investment we plan to make in our internal programs, including our DARA program and our SARM program, in the future. Our adoption of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share-Based Payment" (SFAS 123R), which was effective January 1, 2006, increased our compensation costs and will continue to have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, under Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 00-19, "Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company's Own Stock" (EITF 00-19), the accounting treatment of the warrants that we issued in our October 2006 equity financing may have a significant impact on our results of operations, depending on the volatility of the market price of our common stock and the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the warrants. On a quarterly basis, our future operating results are likely to be highly volatile depending upon our receipt, if any, of milestone payments from our collaborators. We may not receive milestone payments on a regular basis or at all. Our ability to achieve profitability, if ever, will be significantly impacted by the level of investment we plan to make in our internal proprietary programs in the future, as well as the results of those programs. Continuing net losses may limit our ability to fund our operations and we may not generate income from operations in the future. Our current revenue stream is highly dependent upon the extent to which the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries collaborate with drug discovery and development companies for one or more aspects of their drug discovery and development process. Our revenue depends to a large extent on research and development expenditures by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Our capabilities include aspects of the drug discovery and development process that pharmaceutical companies have traditionally performed internally. Although there is a history among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies of outsourcing drug research and development functions, this practice may not continue. The willingness of these companies to expand or continue collaborations to enhance their research and development activities is based on certain factors that are beyond our control. While we are unaware of a specific reason that any of the following factors will have a material impact on the willingness of current or potential collaborators to expand or continue collaborations, examples of 24 relevant factors include collaborators' changing spending priorities among various types of research activities, the increased presence of offshore companies that conduct research and have lower full-time equivalent costs than ours, their ability to hire and retain qualified scientists, their approach regarding expenditures during recessionary periods and their policies regarding the balance of research expenditures versus cost containment. Also, general economic downturns in our collaborators' industries, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, the adverse impact of product litigation on our collaborators' businesses or any decrease in our research and development expenditures could harm our operations, as could increased popularity of management theories, which counsel against outsourcing of critical business functions. Continued consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may further decrease the number of potential collaborators for us or may alter the priorities of our current collaborators. For example, in 2007, subsequent to our entering into the Organon Agreement, Schering-Plough acquired our collaborator Organon. In addition, the popularity of scientific thinking that disfavors elements of our technology platform, such as large diverse libraries, could negatively impact our business. Any decrease in drug discovery spending by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies could cause our revenue to decline. Our ability to collaborate with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will depend on many factors, including our ability to: •discover and develop high-quality drug candidates; •identify and utilize scientists and technologies that are of the highest caliber; and •achieve results in a timely fashion, with acceptable quality and at an acceptable cost. The importance of these factors varies from collaborator to collaborator, and we may be unable to meet any or all of them for some or all of our collaborators in the future. If third parties do not manufacture PS433540 in sufficient quantities and at an acceptable cost, clinical development of PS433540 would be delayed. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities, and we rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical quantities of our product candidates. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. We have relied on third party vendors for the manufacture of clinical quantities of PS433540, and we are currently assessing our manufacturing needs for additional clinical trial supply of PS433540 as we review our clinical strategy for PS433540. We will evaluate whether to continue to rely on the manufacturing capabilities of our current third party vendors or whether some or all of the manufacturing process should be transferred to other contract manufacturers as we plan for our additional clinical trials. If our current supply of PS433540 becomes unusable, if our PS433540 supply is not sufficient to complete our clinical trials, or if we are unsuccessful in identifying a contract manufacturer or negotiating a manufacturing agreement on a timely basis for our additional clinical trials, we could experience a delay in receiving an adequate supply of PS433540. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing or any other third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to continue relationships for PS433540, or to do so at an acceptable cost, or if these or other suppliers fail to meet our requirements for PS433540 for any reason, we would be required to obtain alternate suppliers. Any inability to obtain alternate suppliers, including an inability to obtain approval from the FDA of an alternate supplier, would delay or prevent the clinical development of these product candidates. 25 Use of third-party manufacturers may increase the risk that we will not have adequate supplies of our product candidates. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: •Reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; •The possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and •The possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. Our product candidates and any products that we may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. Our present or future manufacturing partners may not be able to comply with FDA-mandated current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates. We are dependent on our collaborations, and events involving these collaborations or any future collaborations could prevent us from developing or commercializing product candidates. The success of our current business strategy will depend in part on our ability to successfully perform under and manage strategic collaborations. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently develop and commercialize all of the product candidates that may be discovered through our drug discovery technology, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of some of these product candidates or in certain markets for a particular product candidate. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position, and our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on acceptable terms. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations if: •we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements; •we or our collaborators are unable to obtain patent protection for the product candidates or proprietary technologies we discover in our collaborations; •we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations; •our potential collaborators are less willing to expend their resources on our programs due to their focus on other programs or as a result of general market conditions; •our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; 26 •we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our product candidates; •we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators; or •our collaborators elect to terminate our partnerships under the permitted circumstances. If we or our collaborators are unable to develop or commercialize products as a result of the occurrence of any one or a combination of these events, we will be prevented from developing and commercializing such product candidates. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology or products developed with any current or future partner. Lengthy negotiations with potential new partners or disagreements between us and our partners may lead to delays or termination in the research, development or commercialization of product candidates. If we are not able to establish additional partnerships on terms that are favorable to us or if a significant number of our existing partnerships are terminated and we cannot replace them, we may be required to increase our internal product development and commercialization efforts. Any of the foregoing may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The development of our internal and collaborative products is at an early stage and is uncertain. Drug development is a highly uncertain process. Our approach and technology may never result in a commercial drug. None of our programs has resulted in products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. Our most advanced internal compound, PS433540, is in Phase 2 clinical trials. Currently our collaborators have advanced six programs into active clinical trials. All of our therapeutic candidates, including these clinical candidates, face the substantial risks of failure inherent in the drug development process. Any potential pharmaceutical product emanating from one of our internal or collaborative programs must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities will approve them for commercial use. To satisfy these standards, significant additional research, preclinical studies and clinical trials will be required. Our internal and collaborative programs are in early stages relative to generating a commercial product. Therefore, we and our collaborators must engage in significant, time-consuming and costly research and development efforts followed by our and our collaborators' applications for and receipt of, regulatory approvals. Consequently, we do not expect compounds from these development activities to result in commercially available products for many years, if at all. If our collaborators are not able to successfully develop our existing clinical candidates, our business will be harmed. Our collaborators Schering-Plough, BMS and Celgene, currently are undertaking active clinical trials of prospective pharmaceutical products containing our proprietary compounds. In each case, the collaborator is responsible for the development of these potential products, the level of resources devoted to such development and the decision as to when, or whether, such development should cease. Numerous additional studies are necessary to support the further development of these product candidates. Results from preclinical and clinical studies conducted to date on these product candidates are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be obtained in clinical studies. Clinical results could cause our collaborators to discontinue or limit development of these product candidates. For example, in each of August 2007 and November 2005, Schering-Plough informed us that it had discontinued Phase 1 clinical trials for the respective clinical compounds developed from leads from our collaboration with Schering-Plough. There can be no assurance that Schering-Plough, BMS and Celgene will continue to develop the current clinical programs. 27 In addition, our collaborators may pursue alternative technologies or drug candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that compete with the clinical candidates on which they collaborate with us. If our collaborators do not continue their development efforts or if such efforts do not result in positive clinical results, we will not receive additional milestone and royalty payments from those efforts, and our business will be harmed. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market price for our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the closing market price of our common stock ranged from $4.02 per share at its low point in January 2007 to $6.59 per share at its high point in April 2007. Results from our development programs, especially the DARA program, our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, and other developments affecting our competitors or us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. While we are unaware of a specific reason that any of the following factors will have a material impact on our stock price, the following factors, in addition to the factors described in the other risk factors contained in this report, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: •publicity concerning the status of potential drug products under development by us or our collaborators or our competitors and their partners; •reduction, termination or expiration of our collaborations; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; •announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; •developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; •litigation; •economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; •actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; •changes in financial estimates prepared by securities analysts; •differences in the valuations assigned by the equity markets and, in particular, the biopharmaceutical sector of the equity markets, to biopharmaceutical companies like us that have more drug discovery than drug development capabilities; and •the general performance of the equity markets and, in particular, the biopharmaceutical sector of the equity markets. Disputes may arise between our partners and us as to royalties and milestones to which we believe we are entitled. The compound basis for drugs developed by a partner may be a derivative or optimized version of the compound screened or optimized by us. While our existing collaborative agreements provide that we will receive milestone payments and royalties with respect to certain products developed from certain derivative compounds, there can be no assurance that disputes will not arise over the application of payment provisions to such products. 28 There can be no assurance that current or future partners will not pursue alternative technologies, or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments based on the targets which are the subject of the collaborative arrangements with us. In addition, many of our agreements that provide for potential royalty payments to us also contain provisions that reduce our expected royalty if a partner is also required to pay a royalty on a product to a third party. The drug research and development industry is highly competitive and subject to technological change, and we may not have the resources necessary to compete successfully. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service and other resources than we do. Moreover, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by continuous technological innovation. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and our competitors make advanced technologies available. Technological advances or entirely different approaches that we or one or more of our competitors develop may render our products, services and expertise obsolete or uneconomical. Additionally, the existing approaches of our competitors or new approaches or technologies that our competitors develop may be more effective than those we develop. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or future competitors. If we cannot manage the multiple relationships and interests involved in our collaborative arrangements and internal programs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We need to successfully structure and manage multiple internal programs and collaborative relationships, including maintaining confidentiality of the research being performed for multiple collaborators. We may be unable to successfully manage conflicts between competing drug development programs of third parties to which we offer services. From time to time, more than one of our collaborators may want to perform research concerning the same or molecularly similar disease targets. Because of that, we may be required to reconcile our relationships with those collaborators, particularly if both want to establish exclusive relationships with us with respect to that target or if one collaborator has an existing arrangement with us and the other would like us to perform services regarding a target restricted by that arrangement. Further, if we are working with a collaborator regarding a particular target, another of our collaborators may be researching the same target in one of its internal programs of which we have no knowledge. As a result, potential conflicts involving us may arise due to this competition between collaborators in a particular disease field of interest. Conflicts also may arise between our collaborators as to proprietary rights to particular compounds in our libraries or as to proprietary rights to biological targets such as receptors or enzymes against which we screen compounds in our libraries. The occurrence of conflicts, or the perception of conflicts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our activities involve the use of potentially harmful hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. These materials are utilized in the performance of our assay development, high-throughput screening and chemistry optimization services, and include common organic solvents, such as acetone, hexane, methylene chloride, acetonitrile, and isopropyl and methyl alcohol, as well as common acids and bases. The waste from utilization of these solvents and other materials is disposed of through licensed third-party contractors. Further, we utilize an extremely wide variety of chemicals in 29 the performance of our assay development, screening and optimization services. These chemicals, such as reagents, buffers and inorganic salts, typically are employed in extremely small amounts in connection with the work performed in our laboratories. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result. We maintain insurance coverage against environmental hazards arising from the storage and disposal of the materials utilized in our business. Although our management believes that such insurance has terms, including coverage limits, which are appropriate for our business, liabilities arising from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials could exceed our insurance coverage, as well as our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. To our knowledge, we have not been, and currently are not, the subject of any governmental investigation concerning the violation of these federal, state and local laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that we will not be the subject of future investigations by governmental authorities. We and our products are subject to strict government regulation, which may limit the development of products by us or our collaborators. Regulation by governmental entities in the United States and other countries will be a significant factor in the production and marketing of any pharmaceutical products our collaborators or we may develop. The nature and the extent to which government regulation may apply to our collaborators and us will vary depending on the nature of the pharmaceutical products, if any. Virtually all pharmaceutical products require regulatory approval prior to commercialization. If we or our collaborators or licensees fail to obtain, or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining, regulatory approvals, our financial results could be adversely affected. Similar regulatory procedures are required in countries outside the United States. In addition, new legislation related to health care could reduce the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for drugs they sell which, in turn, could reduce the amounts that they have available for collaborative relationships with us. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies decrease the resources they devote to the research and development of new drugs, the number of collaborations we conclude could be adversely impacted and our revenue and profitability reduced. If prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for drugs they sell decrease, the royalties, if any, we receive from the sale of products would also decrease, which would reduce our revenue and profitability. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could materially and adversely affect us. We are a small company and our success depends in part on the continued service of key scientific and management personnel, including our president and chief executive officer, Leslie J. Browne, Ph.D., and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel. Immigration laws may further restrict our ability to attract or hire qualified personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the personnel necessary for our growth and development. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we are highly dependent on the principal members of our scientific and management staff. One or more of these key employees could retire or otherwise leave our employ within the foreseeable future and the loss of any of these people could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not, and do not intend to, maintain key person life insurance on the life of any employee. 30 If third parties on whom we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or to commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we rely on third parties to assist with our preclinical development of product candidates. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. In addition, we continue to depend heavily upon the expertise and dedication of sufficient resources by partners to develop and commercialize products primarily based on lead compounds discovered by us. If a partner fails to develop or commercialize a compound or product with respect to which it has rights from us, we may not receive any future milestone payments or royalties associated with that compound or product. Similarly, while we are unaware of a specific reason that any of the following factors will be experienced by our partners, because we rely heavily on them, our revenue could be adversely affected if our partners: •fail to select a target or product candidate we have identified for subsequent development; •fail to gain the requisite regulatory approvals for product candidates; •do not successfully commercialize products based on the compounds that we originate; •do not conduct their collaborative activities in a timely manner; •do not devote sufficient time or resources to our partnered programs or potential products; •terminate their alliances or arrangements with us; •develop, either alone or with others, products that may compete with our product candidates; •dispute our respective allocations of rights to any products or technology developed during our collaborations; or •merge with or are acquired by a third party that seeks to terminate our collaboration. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our primary facilities. We depend on our laboratories and equipment for the continued operation of our business. Our research and development operations and administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in the Princeton, New Jersey area. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, catastrophic events could still disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event in our facilities or the areas in which they are located could have a significant negative impact on our operations. 31 Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of your investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its price. Anti-takeover provisions under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may render more difficult the accomplishment of mergers or the assumption of control by a principal stockholder, making more difficult the removal of management. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay or deter attempts to secure control of our company without the consent of our management. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain several provisions that could delay or make more difficult the acquisition of our company through a hostile tender offer, open market purchases, proxy contest, merger or other takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in his or her best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. Such provisions include the issuance of preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock, the classification of our board of directors, the election and removal of directors, restrictions on the ability of stockholders to take action without a meeting, restrictions on stockholders' ability to call a special meeting and advance notice procedures regarding any proposal of stockholder business to be discussed at a stockholders meeting. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is triggered upon commencement or announcement of a hostile tender offer or when any one person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock. The rights plan, once triggered, enables stockholders to purchase our common stock at reduced prices. These provisions of our governing documents, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, including without limitation a proxy contest, making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. The provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Further, the existence of these anti-takeover measures may cause potential bidders to look elsewhere, rather than initiating acquisition discussions with us. If we engage in an acquisition or business combination, we will incur a variety of risks that could adversely affect our business operations or our stockholders. From time to time we have considered, and we will continue to consider in the future, if and when any appropriate opportunities become available, strategic business initiatives intended to further the development of our business. These initiatives may include acquiring businesses, technologies or products or entering into a business combination with another company. If we do pursue such a strategy, we could, among other things: •issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; •incur substantial debt that may place strains on our operations; 32 •spend substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products; •assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities; or •merge with, or otherwise enter into a business combination with, another company in which our stockholders would receive cash or shares of the other company or a combination of both on terms that our stockholders may not deem desirable. We are not in a position to predict what, if any, collaborations, alliances or other transactions may result or how, when or if these activities would have a material effect on us or the development of our business. Accounting for our collaboration agreements, our in-licensing agreements, our revenues and costs, our warrants and share-based compensation and other significant transactions involve significant estimates which, if incorrect, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and our ability to raise capital. As further described in "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" under "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," accounting for our collaborative, development, and other transactions in the course of our business require us to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes in place to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our results of operations, and our ability to raise capital. CERTAIN RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Positions taken by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or non-U.S. patent and trademark officials may preclude us from obtaining sufficient or timely protection for our intellectual property. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. There is a significant risk that the scope of a patent may not be sufficient to prevent third parties from marketing other products or technologies with the same functionality of our products and technologies. Consequently, some or all of our patent applications may not issue into patents, and any issued patents may provide ineffective remedies or be challenged or circumvented. Third parties may have filed patent applications of which we may or may not have knowledge, and which may adversely affect our business. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for 18 months from filing or until a patent issues. Under certain circumstances, patent applications are never published but remain in secrecy until issuance. As a result, others may have filed patent applications for products or technology covered by one or more pending patent applications upon which we are relying. If applications covering similar technologies were to be filed before our applications, our patent applications may not be granted. There may be third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property or information relevant to our chemical compositions and other technologies that are not known to us, that block us or compete with our chemical compositions or other technologies, or limit the scope of patent protection available to us. Moreover, from time to time, patents may issue which block or compete with our chemical compositions or other technologies, or limit the scope of patent protection available to us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of the intellectual property rights of third parties. 33 We may not be able to protect adequately the trade secrets and confidential information that we disclose to our employees. We rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Competitors through their independent discovery (or improper means, such as unauthorized disclosure or industrial espionage) may come to know our proprietary information. We generally require employees and consultants to execute confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed by or made known to the employee or consultant during his, her or its relationship with us are to be kept confidential, and that all inventions arising out of the employee's relationship with us are our exclusive property. Our employees and consultants may breach these agreements, and in some instances we may not have an adequate remedy. Additionally, in some instances, we may have failed to require that employees and consultants execute confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements. Foreign laws may not afford us sufficient protections for our intellectual property, and we may not seek patent protection outside the United States. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our ability to obtain international protection for our intellectual property. However, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as comprehensive as those of the United States and may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights abroad. In addition, we may decide not to pursue patent protection outside the United States because of cost and confidentiality concerns. Accordingly, our international competitors could obtain foreign patent protection for, and market overseas, products and technologies for which we are seeking U.S. patent protection and they may be able to use these products and technologies to compete against us. We may not be able to adequately defend our intellectual property from third party infringement, and third party challenges to our intellectual property may adversely affect our rights and be costly and time consuming. Some of our competitors have, or are affiliated with companies having, substantially greater resources than we have, and those competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than us. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace pending resolution of the disputed matters. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs to us, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Similarly, opposition proceedings may occur overseas, which may result in the loss or narrowing of the scope of claims or legal rights. Such proceedings will at least result in delay in the issuance of enforceable claims. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and require us to license disputed rights from third parties or cease using the technology. A patent issued to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect adequately our rights in intellectual property to which the patent relates. Even if patents are issued to us, these patents may not sufficiently protect our interest in our chemical compositions or other technologies because the scope of protection provided by any patents issued to or licensed by us are subject to the uncertainties inherent in patent law. Third parties may be able to design around these patents or develop unique products providing effects similar to our products. In addition, others may discover uses for our chemical compositions or technologies other than those uses covered in our patents and these other uses may be separately patentable. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and research and academic institutions, have developed 34 technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, patent applications or patents may conflict with our technologies, patent applications or patents. These conflicts could also limit the scope of patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain, or result in the denial of our patent applications. We are not currently aware of any such patent applications or patents that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to claims of infringement by third parties. Third parties may claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. In addition, to the extent our employees are involved in research areas similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that one of our employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of a former employer. From time to time, we have received letters claiming or suggesting that our products or activities may infringe third party patents or other intellectual property rights. Our products may infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. A number of patents may have been issued or may be issued in the future that could cover certain aspects of our technology and that could prevent us from using technology that we use or expect to use. We may be required to seek licenses for, or otherwise acquire rights to, technology as a result of claims of infringement. We may not possess proper ownership or access rights to the intellectual property we use. Third parties or other companies may bring infringement suits against us. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of product infringement against us, our failure or inability to license or design around the infringed technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not currently involved in actions of this type that are material to our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 