Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that generally apply to all businesses also may adversely impact our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe CRE industry has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets generally.Our business and operations are dependent on the CRE industry generally, which in turn is dependent upon broad economic conditions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. Despite improvements in the U.S. economy, significant challenges still remain due to the uncertainty surrounding a low inflation rate in the United States, a stronger U.S. dollar, slow global growth and international market volatility. Global economic and political headwinds, along with global market instability and the risk of maturing commercial real estate debt that may have difficulties being refinanced, may continue to cause periodic volatility in the CRE market for some time. Adverse conditions in the CRE industry could harm our business and financial condition by, among other factors, reducing the value of our existing assets, limiting our access to debt and equity capital, harming our ability to originate new CRE investments and otherwise negatively impacting our operations. Challenging economic and financial market conditions could significantly reduce the amount of income we earn on our CRE investments and further reduce the value of our investments.Challenging economic and financial market conditions may cause us to experience an increase in the number of CRE investments that result in losses, including delinquencies, non-performing assets and taking title to collateral and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our investments, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur substantial losses and need to establish significant provision for losses or impairment. Our revenue from our properties could diminish significantly.Risks Related to our ManagerOur ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions depends in substantial part upon the performance of our manager.We rely upon NSAM to manage our day-to-day operations and our investments. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and grow our business, other than our CRE debt origination business, is dependent upon the performance of NSAM in the acquisition of investments, the determination of financing arrangements and the management of our assets and operation of our day-to-day activities under the supervision of, and subject to the policies and guidelines established by, our board of directors. If our manager performs poorly and as a result is unable to originate, acquire and manage our investments successfully, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to stockholders at presently contemplated levels, if at all.Any adverse changes in NSAM’s financial health, the public perception of NSAM or our relationship with NSAM could hinder our operating performance and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Because NSAM is publicly-traded, any negative reaction by the stock market reflected in its stock price or deterioration in the public perception of NSAM could result in an adverse effect on our ability to acquire assets and obtain financing from third parties on favorable terms or at all. In addition, NSAM depends upon the management and other fees and reimbursement of costs that it receives from us and NSAM’s other managed companies, including the NSAM Sponsored Companies, in connection with the acquisition, management and sale of assets to conduct its operations. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of NSAM, or our relationship with NSAM, could hinder NSAM’s ability to successfully support our business and growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.NSAM’s platform may not be as scalable as we anticipate and we could face difficulties growing our business without significant new investment in personnel and infrastructure by NSAM.While we believe NSAM’s platform for operating our business is highly scalable and can support significant growth in our business without substantial new investment in personnel, expertise and infrastructure on a relative basis, we may be wrong in that assessment. Our business has grown substantially over the course of the past several years, both in volume and in scope as we have invested across diverse areas, including healthcare, manufactured housing communities, hotels, private equity investments, internationally and more. This expansion has placed significant additional demands on management and other personnel, as well as our support infrastructure. For example, our total assets increased $9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, with significant expansion in healthcare properties, hotels and international properties. It is possible that if our 21Table of Contents business continues to grow substantially or the business of the other companies managed by NSAM, including the NSAM Sponsored Companies, continues to grow, NSAM will need to make significant investments in personnel, infrastructure and expertise to support that growth. NSAM may be unable to make significant investments on a timely basis or at reasonable costs and its failure in this regard could disrupt our business and operations. Failure of NSAM to effectively perform its obligations under the various agreements entered into with them, including the long-term management agreement and the services agreement, could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.We engaged NSAM to provide asset management and other services to us pursuant to a long-term management agreement and other ancillary agreements. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to make distributions to stockholders will depend in substantial part upon the performance of NSAM and its ability to provide us with asset management and other services. We are also dependent on other third party service providers to whom NSAM may delegate various responsibilities. If for any reason NSAM or any other service provider is unable to perform such services at the level we anticipate, alternate service providers may not be readily available on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our performance and materially harm our ability to execute our business plan.In addition, the management agreement with NSAM is only terminable by us for cause. We cannot terminate the management agreement for any other reason, including if NSAM performs poorly or is unable to acquire and manage our investments successfully. The term “cause” is limited to specific circumstances laid out in the management agreement, including NSAM’s breach of the management agreement or gross negligence that has a materially adverse effect on us. Termination for unsatisfactory financial performance does not constitute “cause” under the management agreement. In addition, we are contractually committed to NSAM’s management for an initial term of 20 years beginning June 30, 2014, with automatic renewal terms thereafter. These provisions increase our risk that NSAM may not perform well and our business could suffer. If NSAM’s performance as our manager does not meet our or our stockholders’ expectations, and we are unable to terminate the management agreement, the market price of our common stock could suffer.Moreover, pursuant to the management agreement, we agreed to provide NSAM with all investment opportunities for the acquisition or origination of CRE debt assets that are presented to our employees or of which any of our employees become aware. NSAM agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to fairly allocate such investment opportunities among us and its other managed companies, including the NSAM Sponsored Companies, in accordance with an investment allocation policy; however, investment allocations will be determined by NSAM in its sole discretion and there can be no assurance that we will be allocated our fair share of the attractive investment opportunities we source. If NSAM fails to effectively allocate investments to us, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives, which could have an adverse effect on our business and performance.Certain fees payable to NSAM are payable regardless of the performance of our portfolio and may fail to appropriately incentivize NSAM when managing our portfolio.We pay NSAM an annual base management fee regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Consequently, we may be required to pay NSAM significant base management fees in a particular quarter despite experiencing a net loss or a decline in the value of our portfolio during that quarter. This in turn could hurt both our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. NSAM’s entitlement to compensation regardless of our performance might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking assets that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio, particularly if other management agreements to which NSAM is a party have a performance-based fee structure. In addition, NSAM has the ability to earn incentive fees each quarter based on our cash available for distribution, or CAD, which may create an incentive for NSAM to invest in assets with higher yield potential, which are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an asset prematurely for a gain and pay down borrowings, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the incentive fees to which it is entitled. Furthermore, the compensation payable to NSAM will increase as a result of future issuances of our equity securities, even if the issuances are dilutive to existing stockholders. If our interests and those of NSAM are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock.The fees we pay to NSAM in connection with the origination, acquisition and management of our investments pursuant to the management agreement were not determined on an arm’s length basis; therefore, we do not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties.The fees we pay to NSAM for services it provides for us pursuant to the management agreement were negotiated when we still owned NSAM and thus not determined on an arm’s length basis. As a result, the fees were determined without the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties and may be in excess of amounts that we 22Table of Contents would otherwise pay to third parties for such services; however, the final terms of the management agreement were approved by our board of directors, including a majority of the independent members thereof.In addition to the management fees we pay to our manager, we reimburse our manager for costs and expenses incurred on our behalf, including indirect personnel and employment costs of our manager and its affiliates and these costs and expenses may be substantial. We pay our manager substantial fees for the services it provides to us and we also have an obligation to reimburse our manager for costs and expenses it incurs and pays on our behalf. Subject to certain limitations and exceptions, we reimburse our manager for both direct expenses as well as indirect costs, including personnel and employment costs of our manager. The costs and expenses our manager incurs on our behalf, including the compensatory costs incurred by our manager and its affiliates, can be substantial. There are conflicts of interest that arise when our manager makes allocation determinations. For the year ended 2014, our manager allocated $5 million in costs and expenses to us. Our manager could allocate costs and expenses to us in excess of what we anticipate and such costs and expenses could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with NSAM that could result in less attractive investment opportunities and higher fees.We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with NSAM, its affiliates, managed entities and strategic ventures. In particular, we expect to compete for investment opportunities directly with other companies and/or accounts that NSAM or its strategic or joint venture partners manage, including with respect to origination opportunities that we source and make available to NSAM pursuant to the management agreement. Certain of NSAM’s managed companies, along with companies, funds and vehicles that are subject to a strategic relationship between NSAM and its strategic or joint venture partners (which we refer to collectively as strategic vehicles) have investment mandates and objectives that target the same investments as us. In addition, NSAM may have additional managed companies or strategic vehicles that compete directly with us for investment opportunities in the future. We have adopted an investment allocation policy with NSAM that is intended to ensure that investments are allocated fairly and appropriately among us and the other NSAM managed companies or strategic vehicles over time, but there is no assurance that NSAM will be successful in eliminating the conflicts arising from the allocation of investment opportunities. When determining the entity for which an investment opportunity would be the most suitable, the factors that NSAM may consider include, among other factors, the following:•investment objectives, strategy and criteria;•cash requirements and amount of funds available;•effect of the investment on the diversification of the portfolio, including by geography, size of investment, type of investment and risk of investment;•leverage policy and the availability of financing for the investment by each entity;•anticipated cash flow of the asset to be acquired;•income tax effects of the purchase; •the size of the investment;•cost of capital;•risk return profiles; •targeted distribution rates;•anticipated future pipeline of suitable investments; •the expected holding period of the investment and the remaining term of the NSAM managed company, if applicable; •affiliate and/or related party considerations; and•whether a strategic vehicle has received a special allocation (as defined in the investment allocation policy).If, after consideration of the relevant factors, NSAM determines that an investment is equally suitable for us and one of its managed companies or strategic vehicles, the investment will be allocated among each of the applicable entities, including us, on a rotating basis. If, after an investment has been allocated to us or another entity, a subsequent event or development, such as delays in structuring or closing on the investment, makes it, in the opinion of NSAM, more appropriate for a different entity to fund the investment, NSAM may determine to place the investment with the more appropriate entity while still giving credit to the original allocation. In certain situations, NSAM may determine to allow more than one investment vehicle, including us, to co-invest in a particular investment.23Table of Contents There is no assurance this policy will remain in place during the entire period we are seeking investment opportunities. In addition, NSAM may sponsor additional managed companies or strategic vehicles in the future and, in connection with the creation of such managed companies or strategic vehicles, may revise these allocation procedures. The result of a revision to the allocation procedures may, among other things, be to increase the number of parties who have the right to participate in investment opportunities sourced by NSAM or us, thereby reducing the number of investment opportunities available to us.In addition, under this policy, NSAM investment professionals may consider the investment objectives and anticipated pipeline of future investments of its managed companies or strategic vehicles. The decision of how any potential investment should be allocated among us and one of NSAM’s managed companies or strategic vehicles for which such investment may be suitable may, in many cases, be a matter of subjective judgment which will be made by NSAM. Pursuant to the investment allocation policy, NSAM may choose to allocate favorable investments to its other managed companies instead of to us. Our investment allocation policy with NSAM could produce unfavorable results for us that could harm our business.NSAM also has and may in the future acquire additional interests in third parties, such as management firms which manage certain of our properties, which may cause its interests to differ from ours. NSAM may also encourage our use of third parties for which we pay a fee. If our interests and NSAM’s interests are not aligned, we may face conflicts of interest that result in action or inaction that is detrimental to us. Our executive officers and our manager’s professionals who perform services for us face competing demands relating to their time and conflicts of interests relating to performing services on our behalf, which may cause our operations and stockholders’ investment to suffer.We rely on NSAM’s executive officers and investment professionals to perform services for us, including Messrs. Hamamoto, Tylis, Gilbert and Lieberman and Ms. Hess for the day-to-day operation of our business. Messrs. Hamamoto, Tylis, Gilbert and Lieberman and Ms. Hess are also executive officers of us and other managed companies, including the NSAM Sponsored Companies. As a result of their interests in NSAM, other managed companies and the fact that they engage in other business activities on behalf of others, these individuals face conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us, NSAM and other managed companies, including the NSAM Sponsored Companies, and other business activities in which they are involved. In addition, our executive officers and certain management personnel performing services for NSAM own equity interests in NSAM and NSAM may grant additional equity interests in NSAM to such persons in connection with their continued services. These conflicts of interest, as well as the loyalties of these individuals to other entities and investors, could result in action or inaction that is detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy, our investment opportunities and the returns on our investments. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets.Further, at times when there are turbulent conditions in the real estate markets or distress in the credit markets or other times when we will need focused support and assistance from NSAM, NSAM’s other managed companies may likewise require greater focus and attention, placing NSAM’s resources in high demand. In such situations, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we may receive if we were internally managed or if NSAM did not act as a manager for other entities.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our manager’s strategic partnerships and joint ventures.NSAM may enter into strategic partnerships and joint ventures. For example, in January 2014, NSAM entered into a partnership with James F. Flaherty III, former chairman and chief executive officer of HCP, Inc. (NYSE: HCP), focused on building a preeminent healthcare real estate business. In addition, NSAM entered into joint ventures with American Healthcare Investors LLC, or AHI, a healthcare-focused real estate investment management firm which manages the Griffin-American Portfolio, and Island Hospitality Group Inc., or Island, a hospitality focused real estate management firm that currently manages 143 hotel properties, representing $4 billion, of which 101 hotel properties are owned by us.NSAM may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of these strategic partnerships and joint ventures. These strategic partnerships and/or joint ventures may also subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, as we may be dependent upon, and subject to, liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, control and personnel that are not under NSAM’s control. In addition, where NSAM does not have a controlling interest, such as in AHI and Island, it may not be able to take actions which are in our best interests due to a lack of full control. Furthermore, to the extent that NSAM’s partners provide services to us, such as with AHI and Island, certain conflicts of interests will exist. Moreover, disagreements or disputes between NSAM and its partners could result in litigation, which could potentially distract NSAM from our business. Certain of our strategic partners and joint ventures may have overlapping interests. For example, Mr. Flaherty also acquired an interest in AHI. Any such overlapping interests may exacerbate potential conflicts or disputes. 24Table of Contents NSAM manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board of directors does not approve each investment and financing decision made by NSAM unless required by our investment guidelines.NSAM is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines established by our board of directors. Our board of directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our portfolio of assets but does not, and is not required to, review all of our proposed investments, except in limited circumstances as set forth in our investment guidelines. Our board of directors may also make modifications to our investment guidelines from time to time as it deems appropriate. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews or modifying our investment guidelines, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by NSAM. Furthermore, transactions entered into by NSAM on our behalf may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of directors. NSAM has flexibility within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types and amounts of assets in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, or may otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders.NSAM’s liability is limited under the management agreement and we have agreed to indemnify NSAM against all liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the NSAM Spin-off.In connection with the NSAM Spin-off, we entered into the management agreement and various other agreements with NSAM. These agreements govern our relationship with NSAM and also provide that all liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the NSAM Spin-off remain with us. NSAM maintains a fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the management agreement, and subject to applicable law, NSAM, its directors, officers, employees, partners, managers, members, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with NSAM are not liable to us or our subsidiaries for acts taken or omitted to be taken in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except those resulting from acts of willful misfeasance or bad faith in the performance of NSAM’s duties under the management agreement. In addition, subject to applicable law, we agreed to indemnify NSAM and each of its directors, officers, employees, partners, managers, members, controlling persons and any other person or entity affiliated with NSAM from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with NSAM’s performance of its duties or obligations under the management agreement or otherwise as our manager, except where attributable to acts of willful misfeasance or bad faith in the performance of NSAM’s duties under the management agreement.NSAM is subject to extensive regulation, including as an investment adviser in the Unites States and as a fund services business in the Bailiwick of Jersey, which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.Certain of NSAM’s affiliates, including our manager, are subject to regulation as investment advisers and/or fund managers by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting the interests of NSAM’s managed companies, including us. Instances of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the investment management industry and disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry have led the U.S. government and regulators in foreign jurisdictions to consider increasing the rules and regulations governing, and oversight of, the financial system. This activity is expected to result in continued changes to the laws and regulations governing the investment management industry and more aggressive enforcement of the existing laws and regulations. NSAM could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanction, including revocation of its registration as an investment adviser in the United States or its registration as a fund services business in the Bailiwick of Jersey, revocation of the licenses of its employees, censures, fines or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business if it is found to have violated any of these laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.NSAM must continually address conflicts between its interests and those of its managed companies, including us. In addition, the SEC, the Jersey Financial Services Commission and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and if NSAM fails, or appears to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, it could face litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which could adversely affect its ability to manage our business.NSAM could undergo a change of control, which could result in a change of management at our manager and its affiliates and cause a disruption to our business and operations. NSAM could undergo a change of control, which could result in a change to the management of our manager and its affiliates as well as a change to the board of directors at NSAM. Consequently, we could be managed by an entity and personnel that do not have the experience and track record that resides within NSAM and suitable alternatives may not be available. New management and personnel could change the manner in which they provide services to us and may not be effective. Any such fundamental change to NSAM could be disruptive to our business and operations and could have a material adverse effect on our performance.25Table of Contents Risks Related to Our InvestmentsGeneralOur CRE equity, debt and mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with CRE. Our CRE equity, debt and securities investments are subject to the risks typically associated with real estate, including:•local, state, national or international economic conditions;•real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in an area;•tenant/operator mix and the success of the tenant/operator business;•property management decisions;•property location and conditions;•property operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes and maintenance costs;•the perceptions of the quality, convenience, attractiveness and safety of the properties;•branding, marketing and operational strategies; •competition from comparable properties;•the occupancy rate of, and the rental rates charged at, the properties;•the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent;•the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies;•the expense of leasing, renovation or construction;•changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage financing;•unknown liens being placed on the properties;•bad acts of third parties;•the ability to refinance mortgage notes payable related to the real estate on favorable terms, if at all;•changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies;•tax implications; •changes in laws, including laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged;•the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, including costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions affecting properties;•cost of compliance with the ADA; •adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies;•social unrest and civil disturbances;•acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters;•terrorism;•the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses;•adverse changes in state and local laws, including zoning laws; and•other factors which are beyond our control.The value of each property is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the property. Many expenses associated with properties (such as operating expenses and capital expenses) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties.These factors may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our borrowers to pay their loans and the ability of the borrowers on the underlying loans securing our securities to pay their loans, as well as on the value and the return that we can realize from assets we acquire.26Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could harm our investments.Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to financial losses and a decrease in revenues, earnings and assets. We have expanded, and may continue to expand, our CRE portfolio by acquiring properties outside the United States, which increases our exposure to global economic slowdowns and recessions. An economic slowdown or recession, in addition to other non-economic factors such as an excess supply of properties, could have a material negative impact on the values of our investments. Declining real estate values will reduce the value of our properties, as well as our ability to refinance our properties and use the value of our existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Slower than expected economic growth pressured by a strained labor market, along with overall financial uncertainty, could result in lower occupancy rates and lower lease rates across many property types and may create obstacles for us to achieve our business plans. We may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our borrowings, which could cause us to lose title to properties securing our borrowings. Our CRE debt investments would be similarly impacted. Our level of new loan originations would also likely decline. In addition, borrowers may be less likely to achieve their business plans and less able to pay principal and interest on our CRE debt investments. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our debt investments in the event of a default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, taking title to collateral or losses could adversely affect both our CRE investments as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We are subject to significant competition and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments.We are subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly-traded REITs, non-traded REITs, insurance companies, commercial and investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors. We have observed increased competition in 2014 and expect that to continue into 2015. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. If we pay higher prices for investments or originate loans on less advantageous terms to us, our returns may be lower and the value of our assets may not increase or may decrease significantly below the amount we paid for such assets. If such events occur, we may experience lower returns on our investments.We have no established investment criteria limiting the geographic concentration of our investments. If our investments are concentrated in an area or asset class that experiences adverse economic conditions, our investments may lose value and we may experience losses.Properties that we may acquire may be concentrated in a geographic location or in a particular asset class. Additionally, certain of our investments may be secured by a single property or properties in one geographic location. These current and future investments carry the risks associated with significant geographical concentration. We have not established and do not plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. As a result, properties underlying our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas and we may experience losses as a result. A worsening of economic conditions, a natural disaster or civil disruptions in a geographic area in which our investments may be concentrated, or economic upheaval with respect to a particular asset class, could have an adverse effect on our business, including reducing the demand for new financings, limiting the ability of borrowers to pay financed amounts and impairing the value of our properties or collateral.We are subject to additional risks due to our international investments.In the past year, we have acquired or committed to acquire approximately $2 billion of real estate in Europe, including properties located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Sweden. We may pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United States and we may acquire or originate senior or subordinate loans made to borrowers located outside of the United States or secured by properties located outside of the United States. Most of our expertise to date is in the United States and neither we nor NSAM have extensive expertise in international markets. Our international investments may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the borrower or the property is located and these laws may expose us to risks that are different from and/or in addition to those commonly found in the United States. We anticipate paying additional fees to third parties to help manage these portfolios, but there is no assurance this will reduce our risk. We and NSAM may not be as familiar with the potential risks to our investments outside of the United States and we may incur losses as a result. These risks include:•governmental laws, rules and policies, including laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property or mortgages and laws relating to the ability of foreign persons or corporations to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person's or corporation's country of origin; •translation and transaction risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;27Table of Contents •adverse market conditions caused by inflation or other changes in national or local political and economic conditions; •challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including corporate governance, operations, taxes and litigation;•changes in relative interest rates; •the potential for significant U.S. tax liability upon repatriation of profits earned in foreign jurisdictions, which could result in us keeping such earnings in foreign jurisdictions, thereby limiting our liquidity;•changes in the availability, cost and terms of borrowings resulting from varying national economic policies; •changes in real estate and other tax rates, the tax treatment of transaction structures and other changes in operating expenses in a particular country where we have an investment; •our REIT tax status not being respected under foreign laws, in which case any income or gains from foreign sources would likely be subject to foreign taxes, withholding taxes, transfer taxes and value added taxes; •lack of uniform accounting standards (including availability of information in accordance with U.S. GAAP); •changes in land use and zoning laws; •more stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws; •changes in the social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments in or affecting a country where we have an investment; •changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations; and•legal and logistical barriers to enforcing our contractual rights in other countries, including insolvency regimes, landlord/tenant rights and ability to take possession of the collateral. Certain of these risks may be greater in emerging markets and less developed countries. Each of these risks might adversely affect our performance and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders required to maintain our REIT qualification. In addition, there is generally less publicly available information about foreign companies and a lack of uniform financial accounting standards and practices (including the availability of information in accordance with U.S. GAAP) which could impair our ability to analyze transactions and receive timely and accurate financial information from tenants or borrowers necessary to meet our reporting obligations to financial institutions or governmental or regulatory agencies.Our joint venture partners could take actions that decrease the value of an investment to us and lower our overall return.We currently have, and may in the future enter into, joint ventures with third parties to make investments. We may also make investments in partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements or participations. For example, we currently have joint ventures with Chatham Lodging Trust with respect to hotel portfolios, RHP Properties with respect to all of our manufactured housing communities, Formation Capital and NorthStar Healthcare with respect to the Formation Portfolio and NorthStar Healthcare with respect to the Griffin-American Portfolio. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment, including, for example, the following risks:•our joint venture partner in an investment could become insolvent or bankrupt;•fraud or other misconduct by our joint venture partners;•we may share decision-making authority with our joint venture partner regarding certain major decisions affecting the ownership of the joint venture and the joint venture property, such as the sale of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partner;•such joint venture partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become in conflict with our business interests or goals, including for example the operation of the properties; •such joint venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; and•the terms of our joint ventures could restrict our ability to sell or transfer our interest to a third party when we desire on advantageous terms, which could result in reduced liquidity.Any of the above might subject us to liabilities and thus reduce our returns on our investment with that joint venture partner. In addition, disagreements or disputes between us and our joint venture partner could result in litigation, which could increase our expenses and potentially limit the time and effort our officers and directors are able to devote to our business.28Table of Contents Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us.Many of our investments are illiquid. A variety of factors could make it difficult for us to dispose of any of our assets on acceptable terms even if a disposition is in the best interests of stockholders. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Certain of our properties, such as our healthcare properties, are special purpose properties that could not be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Additionally, transfers of operations of healthcare properties are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Certain properties may also be subject to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of financing that can be placed or repaid on that property. We may be required to expend cash to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold, and we cannot assure that we will have cash available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. The Internal Revenue Code also places limits on our ability to sell certain properties held for fewer than two years. We may also determine to give our tenants a right of first refusal or similar options. Similarly, borrowers under certain of our CRE debt investments may give their tenants or other persons similar rights with respect to the collateral. Such rights could negatively affect the residual value or marketability of the property and impede our ability to sell the property or collateral. As a result, our ability to sell investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions could be limited. To the extent we are unable to sell any property for its book value or at all, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our earnings. Limitations on our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We are subject to risks associated with future advance or capital expenditure obligations, such as declining real estate values and operating performance.We may need to fund capital expenditures and other significant expenses for our real estate property investments. In addition, our CRE debt investments may require us to advance future funds. Future funding obligations subject us to significant risks, such as a decline in value of the property, cost overruns and the borrower and tenant/operator may be unable to generate enough cash flow and execute its business plan, or sell or refinance the property, in order to repay its obligations to us. We could determine that we need to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to maximize the value of our investment even though there is no assurance additional funding would be the best course of action. Further, future funding obligations may require us to maintain higher liquidity than we might otherwise maintain and this could reduce the overall return on our investments. We could also find ourselves in a position with insufficient liquidity to fund future obligations.We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property, which will increase the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property or rental income from the property which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The seller of a property often sells such property in an “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, the related real estate purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. Despite our efforts, we may fail to uncover all material risks during our diligence process. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, as well as the loss of rental income from that property if an issue should arise that decreases the value of that property and is not covered by the limited warranties. If any of these results occur, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The price we pay for acquisitions of real property and the terms of our CRE debt investments will be based on our projections of market demand, occupancy and rental income, as well as on market factors, and our return on our investment may be lower than expected if any of our projections are inaccurate.The price we pay for real property investments and the terms of our debt investments will be based on our projections of market demand, occupancy levels, rental income, the costs of any development, redevelopment or renovation of a property, borrower expertise and other factors. In addition, as the real estate market continues to strengthen with the improvement of the U.S. and certain foreign economies, we will face increased competition, which may drive up prices for real estate assets or make loan origination terms less favorable to us. If any of our projections are inaccurate or we ascribe a higher value to assets and their value subsequently drops or fails to rise because of market factors, returns on our investment may be lower than expected and could experience losses.29Table of Contents Our lease or management transactions may not result in market rates over time.We expect substantially all of our rental and fee income to come from lease or management transactions, which may have longer terms than standard arrangements or renewal options that specify maximum rate increases. If we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rates, rental and fee increases under the terms may fail to result in fair market rates over time. Further, we may have no ability to terminate our lease or management transactions or adjust the rent and fees to then-prevailing market rates. For example, our triple net leases in connection with the properties acquired in the Griffin-American merger contain rent escalation provisions, which may not reflect market rates over time. As a result, our income and distributions to stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not enter into such lease or management agreements.A significant portion of our leases may expire in the same year.A significant portion of the leases for our real estate investments may expire in the same year. For certain of our properties, such as manufactured housing and multifamily leases are short term in nature and therefore subject to heightened lease turnover risk. Additionally, for certain of our properties which are primarily leased to one tenant/operator, such as our net lease and certain healthcare properties, lease expirations may coincide with the maturities on the borrowing for such properties subject to such leases. As a result, we could be subject to a sudden and material change in value of our portfolio and available cash flow from such investments in the event that these leases are not renewed or in the event that we are not able to extend or refinance the mortgage notes payable on the properties that are subject to these leases.We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us or the properties underlying CRE debt investments on favorable terms, or at all.Certain of our real estate investments and properties underlying CRE real estate debt investments were negatively impacted by the more recent challenging economic conditions and all of our investments in real estate will continue to be pressured if economic conditions and rental markets continue to be challenging. For example, upon expiration or earlier termination of leases for space located at our properties, the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants/operators) may be less favorable than current lease terms. We may be receiving above market rental rates which will decrease upon renewal, which will adversely impact our income and could harm our ability to service our debt and operate successfully. Weak economic conditions would likely reduce tenants’/operators’ ability to make rent payments in accordance with the contractual terms of their leases and lead to early termination of leases. Furthermore, commercial space needs may contract, resulting in lower lease renewal rates and longer releasing periods when leases are not renewed. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. Additionally, to the extent that market rental rates are reduced, property-level cash flow would likely be negatively affected as existing leases renew at lower rates. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the space at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we will experience a reduction in net income and may be required to reduce or eliminate cash distributions to stockholders.Many of our investments are dependent upon tenants/operators successfully operating their businesses and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We depend on our tenants/operators to manage the day-to-day operations of our real estate properties in a manner that generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties under their operational control in a manner that does not jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status. The ability of our tenants/operators to fulfill their obligations to us may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations, including any other facilities, properties or businesses they may acquire or operate. The cash flow generated by the operation of our properties may not be sufficient for a tenant/operator to meet its obligations to us. In several cases, a single operator operates several of our properties and the failure of one operator could materially adversely affect many properties. Tenants/operators who are having trouble with their cash flow are more likely to expose us to unknown liens and other risks to our assets. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our real estate borrowings could be limited if our tenants/operators are unable to meet their obligations to us or we fail to renew or extend our contractual relationship with any of our tenants/operators. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.30Table of Contents We may become responsible for capital improvements. To the extent such capital improvements are not undertaken, the ability of our tenants/operators to manage our properties effectively and on favorable terms may be affected, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Although under our typical net lease structure our tenants/operators are generally responsible for capital improvement expenditures, it is possible that a tenant/operator may not be able to fulfill its obligations to keep the facility in good operating condition. To the extent capital improvements are not undertaken or are deferred, occupancy rates and the amount of rental and reimbursement income generated by the facility may decline, which would negatively impact the overall value of the affected facility. We may be forced to incur unexpected significant expense to maintain our properties, even those that are net leased. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Lease defaults, terminations or landlord-tenant/operator disputes may reduce our income from our real estate investments.The creditworthiness of our tenants/operators in our real estate investments has been, or could become, negatively impacted as a result of challenging economic conditions or otherwise, which could result in their inability to meet the terms of their leases. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more tenants/operators may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant/operator is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant/operator that result in the tenant/operator withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant/operator. Upon a lease default, we may have limited remedies, be unable to accelerate lease payments and have limited or no recourse against a guarantor. Tenants/operators as well as guarantors may have limited or no ability to satisfy any judgments we may obtain. We may also have duties to mitigate our losses and we may not be successful in that regard. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If this occurred, it could adversely affect our results of operations.The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of any of our tenants/operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new tenants/operators.Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major tenants/operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major tenants/operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire.We are exposed to the risk that our tenants/operators may not be able to meet their obligations to us or other third parties, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans permit us to evict a tenant/operator, demand immediate repayment and pursue other remedies, bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. A tenant/operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant/operator’s bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs.Bankruptcy laws provide that a debtor has the option to assume or reject an unexpired lease within a certain period of time of filing for bankruptcy, but generally requires such assumption or rejection to be made in its entirety. Thus, a debtor cannot choose to keep the beneficial provisions of a contract while rejecting the burdensome ones; the contract must be assumed or rejected as a whole. For example, many of our healthcare properties are currently net leased to an operator operating multiple facilities, some of which are pursuant to a single master lease. If one or more of our healthcare property operators files for bankruptcy relief, it is possible that in bankruptcy the debtor may be required to assume or reject the master lease in its entirety, rather than making the decision on a property-by-property basis, thereby preventing the debtor from assuming the better performing properties and terminating the master lease with respect to the poorer performing properties. However, where under applicable law a contract (even though it is contained in a single document) is determined to be divisible or severable into different agreements, or similarly, where a collection of documents is determined to constitute separate agreements instead of a single, integrated contract, then in those circumstances a debtor/trustee may be allowed to assume some of the divisible or separate agreements while rejecting the others. If the debtor has the ability, and chooses, to assume some of the divisible agreement while rejecting the other divisible agreements, or if a non-debtor tenant is unable to comply with the terms of an agreement, we may be forced to modify the agreements in ways that are unfavorable to us.Both our tenants/operators’ and borrowers’ forms of entities may cause special risks or hinder our recovery.Most of our tenants/operators in the real estate that we own, as well as the borrowers for our CRE debt investments and borrowers underlying our CRE securities, are legal entities rather than individuals. The obligations these entities owe us are typically non-recourse so we can only look to our collateral, and at times, the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to recover our investment. As a result, our risk of loss may be greater than for leases with or originators of loans made to individuals. Unlike individuals involved in bankruptcies, these legal entities will generally not have personal assets and 31Table of Contents creditworthiness at stake. As a result, the default or bankruptcy of one of our tenants/operators or borrowers, or a general partner or managing member of that tenant or borrower, may impair our ability to enforce our rights and remedies under the terms of the lease agreement or the related mortgage, respectively.Insurance may not cover all potential losses on CRE investments, which may impair the value of our assets.We generally require that each of the borrowers under our CRE debt investments obtain comprehensive insurance covering the collateral, including liability, fire and extended coverage. We also generally obtain insurance directly on any property we acquire. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. We may not obtain, or require borrowers to obtain, certain types of insurance if it is deemed commercially unreasonable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds, if any, might not be adequate to restore the economic value of the property, which might decrease the value of the property and in turn impair our investment.Compliance with the ADA, Fair Housing Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us, our borrowers or our tenants/operators to make unanticipated expenditures which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our properties are required to comply with the ADA, which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. We must also comply with the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits us and our tenants/operators from discriminating against individuals on certain bases in any of our practices if it would cause such individuals to face barriers in gaining residency in any of our facilities. In addition, our properties are required to operate in compliance with applicable fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations and licensing or certification requirements as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies from time-to-time. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with those requirements. Changes in labor and other laws could also negatively impact us, our borrowers and our tenants/operators. For example, changes to labor-related statutes or regulations could significantly impact the cost of labor in the workforce, which would increase the costs faced by our borrowers and tenants/operators and increase their likelihood of default.Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our properties or our real estate-related investments may materially impair the value of our investments and expose us to liability. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, such as us and our tenants/operators, may be liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of, or related releases of, certain hazardous or toxic substances, including materials containing asbestos, at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances, including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of such substances and liability may be imposed on the owner in connection with the activities of a tenant/operator at the property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our or our tenants’/operators’ ability to sell or lease real estate, or to borrow using the real estate as collateral, which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. We, or our tenants/operators, as owner or operator of a site, may be liable under common law or otherwise to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and our or our tenants’/operators’ liability could significantly exceed the value of the property without any limits.The scope of the indemnification our tenants/operators have agreed to provide us may be limited. For instance, some of our agreements with our tenants/operators do not require them to indemnify us for environmental liabilities arising before the tenant/operator took possession of the premises. Further, we cannot assure stockholders that any such tenant/operator would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations. If we were deemed liable for any such environmental liabilities and were unable to seek recovery against our tenant/operator, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Furthermore, we may invest in real estate, or mortgage loans secured by real estate, with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate. Even as a lender, if we take title to collateral with environmental problems or if other circumstances arise, we could be subject to environmental liability. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment.32Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Investments in Healthcare AssetsAs of December 31, 2014, approximately 42% of our real estate investments are concentrated in medical office buildings and other healthcare-related facilities, which increases the risks related to owning healthcare real estate properties becoming more material to our business and results of operations.Following the completion of the acquisition of the Griffin-American Portfolio, we significantly increased our ownership of healthcare real estate properties in our portfolio, which represent 42% of our real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2014. As a result of this increase in the concentration of healthcare real estate properties, our exposure to the risks inherent in investments in the healthcare sector has also increased, making us more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the healthcare sector. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our lessees’ ability to make lease payments to us and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects may be more pronounced than if our investments were more diversified. We do not control the operations of our healthcare properties and we are dependent on the managers of our healthcare properties. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are not permitted to operate any of our healthcare properties. As a result, we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our healthcare properties. For example, AHI manages all of the healthcare properties in the Griffin-American Portfolio. For this reason, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our healthcare properties. Although we consult with our operators with respect to strategic business plans, the operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to these matters. While we monitor the managers’ performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the managers are not performing adequately. From time to time, we may have differences with the managers of our healthcare properties over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. If we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. Failure by our managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements or the failure of our managers to adequately manage the risks associated with operations of healthcare properties, including cyber-security risks, could affect adversely our results of operations. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect it to become more competitive.We own and manage a diversified portfolio of healthcare properties. Our tenants, operators and managers may encounter increased competition for residents and patients, including with respect to the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price and location. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the assisted living, independent living, and medical office building segments of the healthcare industry are not substantial, although there are often regulatory barriers to the development of hospitals and skilled nursing facilities. Medical office tenants are frequently dependent upon the success of the hospitals in their vicinity. Consequently, our tenants and operators may encounter increased competition which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.Healthcare laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and the failure of our tenants, operators or managers to comply with these laws and regulations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our tenants, operators and managers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes. The ultimate timing or effect of any changes in these laws and regulations cannot be predicted. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our tenants, operators or managers to satisfy their obligations to us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, failure to comply with the laws, requirements and regulations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We are exposed to operational risks at our properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations. We are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our properties that may be more prevalent in healthcare than other industry segments that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks include: (i) fluctuations in occupancy, government and other third party reimbursement, private pay rates; (ii) economic conditions; (iii) competition; (iv) federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; (v) the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; (vi) state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and (vii) the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 33Table of Contents 10-K for further discussion. Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Our tenants, operators and managers are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our tenants, operators and managers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time.Failure to comply with certain healthcare laws and regulations could adversely affect the operations of our operators, tenants and managers, which could jeopardize our operators’, tenants’ and managers’ abilities to meet their obligations to us. Our operators, tenants and managers generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. Our operators’, tenants’ or managers’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Certain healthcare laws include criminal and civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. They may also allow individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof and for recovery of damages and fines. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Investigation by a federal or state governmental body for violation of fraud and abuse laws or imposition of penalties with respect to any of our tenants, operators or managers could result in a failure to meet its obligations to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Reimbursement rates from third-party payors have been reduced in the past and could be reduced again in the future, which would materially adversely affect our tenants and operators, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Governmental and private reimbursement rates may decrease. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Our ability to generate revenue and income influences the underlying value of our healthcare facilities, which may decrease if third party reimbursement rates decrease. License and Certificate of Need requirements affect our current operators and may delay our ability to replace an operator.Many of our properties may require a license, registration and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license, registration or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment and the construction or renovation of healthcare facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval from a state agency. If we need to replace an operator, compliance with licensure and CON laws may delay the process. Refer to “Regulation - Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.Economic downturns, weakness in the housing and equity markets, lowered consumer confidence and other events could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford the entrance fees or monthly resident fees for our healthcare facilities and, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Costs to seniors associated with independent and assisted living services are generally not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our facilities are located typically will be able to afford to pay the entrance fees and monthly resident fees. Economic downturns, softness in the housing market, lower levels of consumer confidence, reductions 34Table of Contents or declining growth of government entitlement programs (such as social security benefits), stock market volatility, changes in demographics and other events could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford the entrance fees or monthly resident fees for our healthcare facilities. If our operators are unable to retain and attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services and other services provided by our operators at our healthcare facilities, our occupancy rates could decline, which could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare properties, we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Healthcare properties are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times operator-specific. A new or replacement operator may require different features in a property, depending on that operator’s particular operations. If a current operator is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial costs to modify a property for a new operator, or for multiple operators with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to release the space. Consequently, our healthcare properties may not be suitable for lease to other operators or for alternative uses without significant costs or renovations, which costs may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.If our tenants, operators or managers fail to maintain a positive reputation and cultivate new or maintain existing relationships with residents in the markets in which they operate, the occupancy percentage, payor mix and resident rates may deteriorate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.The ability of our tenants, operators and managers to obtain and maintain the overall occupancy percentage, payor mix and resident rates at our healthcare facilities depends on our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ reputation in the communities they serve and their ability to successfully market our facilities to potential residents. A large part of our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ marketing and sales effort is directed towards cultivating and maintaining legally compliant relationships with key community organizations that work with seniors, physicians and other healthcare providers in the communities where our facilities are located, whose referral practices significantly affect the choices seniors make with respect to their long-term care needs. If our tenants, operators and managers are unable to successfully cultivate and maintain strong relationships with these community organizations, physicians and other healthcare providers, occupancy rates at our facilities could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our tenants, operators and managers may mismanage our healthcare facilities, be subjected to governmental intervention, including shutting down of the facilities and be the subject of negative public news articles and other adverse attention. In such a case, our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ ability to continue functioning would be in severe jeopardy and our ability to realize value on our underlying assets could be materially adversely affected.The hospitals on or near whose campuses many of our MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs.Our MOB operations depend on the competitiveness and financial viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients to our MOBs. The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition for patients, physicians and physician groups, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential. Because we rely on proximity to and affiliations with hospitals to create leasing demand in our MOBs, a hospital’s inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could materially adversely affect our MOB operations and have a material adverse effect on us.We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients.The success of our MOB operations depends, to a large extent, on past, current and future relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems. Significant amounts of time are spent in developing relationships with both new and existing clients. If our relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems deteriorate, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, it may have a material adverse effect on us.We may not be able to compete effectively in those markets where overbuilding exists and our inability to compete in those markets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Overbuilding in the healthcare segment in the late 1990s reduced occupancy and revenue rates at healthcare properties. This, combined with unsustainable levels of borrowings, forced several operators into bankruptcy. The occurrence of another period 35Table of Contents of overbuilding could adversely affect our future occupancy and resident fee rates, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We face increasing competition for the acquisition of healthcare properties which may impede our ability to make acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We compete with many other businesses engaged in real estate investment activities for the acquisition of healthcare properties, including local, regional and national operators and acquirers and developers of healthcare real estate. The competition for healthcare properties may significantly increase the price we might pay for a facility or property we seek to acquire and our competitors may succeed in acquiring those facilities or properties themselves. In addition, operators with whom we attempt to do business may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger healthcare REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition may result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for healthcare properties, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders may be materially adversely affected.Risks Related to Our Hotel AssetsAs of December 31, 2014, approximately 22% of our real estate investments are concentrated in hotels, which increases our exposure to risks affecting the lodging industry. We have significantly increased our ownership of hotel properties in our portfolio, which represent 22% of our real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2014. The lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as well as other factors. The performance of the lodging industry has traditionally been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in gross domestic product. Changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers, particularly during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. The majority of our hotels are classified as upscale extended stay and select service. In an economic downturn, these types of hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. This characteristic may result from the fact that these hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. Our results of operations and any forecast we make may be affected by, and can change based on, a variety of circumstances that affect the lodging industry, including: •changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate;•changes in business and leisure travel patterns;•increases in energy costs or airline fares or terrorist incidents, which impact the propensity of people to travel and revenues from our lodging facilities because operating costs cannot be adjusted as quickly;•supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties;•the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels;•the performance of the managers of our hotels;•outbreaks of disease and the impact on travel of natural disasters and weather;•physical damage to our hotels as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters or the income lost as a result of the damage;•changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and•unionization of the labor force at our hotels.A reduction in our revenue or earnings as a result of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements. We are subject to risks associated with our ongoing need for renovations and capital improvements as well as financing these expenditures.In order to remain competitive, our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. These capital improvements may give rise to the following risks:36Table of Contents •construction cost overruns and delays;•a possible shortage of liquidity to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms;•the renovation investment failing to produce the returns on investment that we expect;•disruptions in the operations of the hotel as well as in demand for the hotel while capital improvements are underway; and•disputes with franchisors or hotel managers regarding compliance with relevant management or franchise agreements.We may have insufficient liquidity to fund capital expenditures and, consequently, we may need to rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund our investments and capital improvements. These sources of funds may not be available on reasonable terms and conditions or at all.We do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are not permitted to operate any of our hotels. As a result, we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. We currently rely upon Island to manage most of our hotels. For this reason, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, repositioning of a hotel, food and beverage pricing and certain similar matters. Although we consult with our hotel operators with respect to strategic business plans, the hotel operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to these matters. While we monitor the hotel managers’ performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. The cash flow from our hotels may be affected adversely if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. Because our management agreements are long term agreements, we also may not be able to terminate these agreements if we believe the manager is not performing adequately. From time to time, we may have differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. If we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. Failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements or the failure of our managers to adequately manage the risks associated with hotel operations, including cyber-security risks, could affect adversely our results of operations. In addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest. Risks Related to Our Investments in CRE Debt and SecuritiesThe CRE debt we originate and invest in and mortgage loans underlying the CRE securities we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, taking title to collateral, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower under the loan. If the borrower defaults, it may result in losses to us.Our CRE debt investments are secured by commercial real estate and are subject to risks of delinquency, loss, taking title to collateral and bankruptcy of the borrower. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced or is not increased, depending on the borrower’s business plan, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy and the underlying asset value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. In this manner, real estate values could impact the value of our CRE debt and securities investments. Therefore, our CRE debt and securities will be subject to the risks typically associated with real estate.Additionally, we may suffer losses for a number of reasons, including the following, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance:•If the value of real property or other assets securing our CRE debt deteriorates. The majority of our CRE debt investments are fully or substantially non-recourse. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets (including escrowed funds and reserves, if any) collateralizing the debt. There can be no assurance that the value of the assets securing our CRE debt investments will not deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, as was the case during the credit crisis and as a result of the recent economic recession. Further, we may not know whether the value of these properties has declined below levels existing on the dates of origination. If the value of the properties drop, our risk will increase because of the lower 37Table of Contents value of the collateral and reduction in borrower equity associated with the related CRE debt. If a borrower defaults on our CRE debt and the mortgaged real estate or other borrower assets collateralizing our CRE debt are insufficient to satisfy the loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest.•If a borrower or guarantor defaults on recourse obligations under a CRE debt investment. We sometimes obtain personal or corporate guarantees from borrowers or their affiliates. These guarantees are often triggered only upon the occurrence of certain trigger, or “bad boy,” events. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we will typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. As a result of challenging economic and market conditions, many borrowers and guarantors faced, and continue to face, financial difficulties and were unable, and may continue to be unable, to comply with their financial covenants. If the economy does not strengthen, our borrowers could experience additional financial stress. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our CRE debt and related guarantees.•Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of an entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. This underwriting process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly-organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Furthermore, historic performance evaluated in connection with our underwriting process may not be indicative of future performance.•Delays in liquidating defaulted CRE debt investments could reduce our investment returns. The occurrence of a default on a CRE debt investment could result in our taking title to collateral. However, we may not be able to take title to and sell the collateral securing the loan quickly. Taking title to collateral can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a negative effect on the return on our investment. Borrowers often resist when we seek to take title to collateral by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses, including but not limited to lender liability claims, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action. In some states, taking title to collateral can take several years or more to resolve. At any time during a foreclosure proceeding, for example, the borrower may file for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure action and further delaying the foreclosure process. The resulting time delay could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted loans. Furthermore, an action to take title to collateral securing a loan is regulated by state statutes and regulations and is subject to the delays and expenses associated with lawsuits if the borrower raises defenses, counterclaims or files for bankruptcy. In the event of default by a borrower, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to take title to and sell the collateral securing the loan or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the loan. In addition, we may be forced to operate any collateral for which we take title for a substantial period of time, which could be a distraction for our management team and may require us to pay significant costs associated with such collateral. We may not recover any of our investment even if we take title to collateral.CRE debt restructurings may reduce our net interest income.While the U.S. economy is stronger today, a return to weak economic conditions in the future may cause our borrowers to be at increased risk of default and we, or a third party, may need to restructure loans if our borrowers are unable to meet their obligations to us and we believe restructuring is the best way to maximize value. In order to preserve long-term value, we may determine to lower the interest rate on loans in connection with a restructuring, which will have an adverse impact on our net interest income. We may also determine to extend the maturity and make other concessions with the goal of increasing overall value, however, there is no assurance that the results of our restructurings will be favorable to us. Restructuring an investment may ultimately result in us receiving less than had we not restructured the investment. We may lose some or all of our investment even if we restructure in an effort to increase value.38Table of Contents We may be unable to restructure our investments in a manner that we believe maximizes value, particularly if we are one of multiple creditors in large capital structures.In order to maximize value, we may be more likely to extend and work out an investment rather than pursue other remedies such as taking title to collateral. However, in situations where there are multiple creditors in large capital structures, it can be particularly difficult to assess the most likely course of action that a lender group or the borrower may take and it may also be difficult to achieve consensus among the lender group as to major decisions. Consequently, there could be a wide range of potential principal recovery outcomes, the timing of which can be unpredictable, based on the strategy pursued by a lender group or other applicable parties. These multiple creditor situations tend to be associated with larger loans. If we are one of a group of lenders, we may not independently control the decision making. Consequently, we may be unable to restructure an investment in a manner that we believe would maximize value. The subordinate CRE debt we originate and invest in may be subject to risks relating to the structure and terms of the related transactions, as well as subordination in bankruptcy, and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our investments, which may result in losses to us. We originate, structure and acquire subordinate CRE debt investments secured primarily by commercial properties, which may include subordinate mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and participations in such loans and preferred equity interests in borrowers who own such properties. These investments may be subordinate to other debt on commercial property and are secured by subordinate rights to the commercial property or by equity interests in the borrower. In addition, real properties with subordinate debt may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional debt, resulting in less equity in the real property and increasing the risk of loss of principal and interest. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, after senior obligations are met, there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate interests. Because each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate investments can vary in their structural characteristics and lender rights. Our rights to control the default or bankruptcy process following a default will vary from transaction to transaction. The subordinate investments that we originate and invest in may not give us the right to demand taking title to collateral as a subordinate real estate debt holder. Furthermore, the presence of intercreditor agreements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Similarly, a majority of the participating lenders may be able to take actions to which we object, but by which we will be bound. Even if we have control, we may be unable to prevent a default or bankruptcy and we could suffer substantial losses. Certain transactions that we originated and invested in could be particularly difficult, time consuming and costly to work out because of their complicated structure and the diverging interests of all the various classes of debt in the capital structure of a given asset.Floating-rate CRE debt, which is often associated with transitional assets, may entail greater risks of default to us than fixed-rate CRE debt.Floating-rate loans are often, but not always, associated with transitional properties as opposed to those with highly stabilized cash flow. Floating-rate CRE debt may have higher delinquency rates than fixed-rate loans. Borrowers with floating-rate loans may be exposed to increased monthly payments if the related interest rate adjusts upward from the initial fixed rate in effect during the initial period of the loan to the rate calculated in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Increases in a borrower’s monthly payment as a result of an increase in prevailing market interest rates may make it more difficult for the borrowers with floating-rate loans to repay the loan and could increase the risk of default of their obligations under the loan.Investments in non-performing real estate assets involve greater risks than investments in stabilized, performing assets and make our future performance more difficult to predict.We may make investments in non-performing real estate assets. Traditional performance metrics of real estate assets are generally not as reliable for non-performing real estate assets as they are for performing real estate assets. Non-performing properties, for example, do not have stabilized occupancy rates and may require significant capital for repositioning. Similarly, non-performing loans do not have a consistent stream of cash flow to support normalized debt service. In addition, for non-performing loans, often there is greater uncertainty as to the amount or timeliness of principal repayment. There are also a variety of strategies available to create value in a non-performing real estate investment, including development, redevelopment or lease-up of a property or negotiating a reduced payoff, restructuring the terms of the loan or enforcing rights as lender and taking title to collateral securing the loan with respect to CRE debt investments. None of these strategies may be successful. It is challenging to evaluate non-performing investments, which increases the risks associated with such investments.We may be subject to risks associated with construction lending, such as declining real estate values, cost overruns and delays in completion.Our CRE debt investments may include loans made to developers to construct prospective projects, which may include ground-up construction or repositioning an existing asset. The primary risks to us of construction loans are the potential for cost overruns, the developer’s failing to meet a project delivery schedule, market downturns and the inability of a developer to sell 39Table of Contents or refinance the project at completion in accordance with its business plan and repay our CRE debt. These risks could cause us to have to fund more money than we originally anticipated in order to complete the project. We invest in CRE securities, including CMBS and other subordinate securities, which entail certain heightened risks.We invest in a variety of CRE securities that are subordinate securities subject to the first risk of loss if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans. CMBS entitle the holders thereof to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial or multifamily mortgage loans. Consequently, CMBS and other CRE securities will be adversely affected by payment defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying mortgage loans, which increase during times of economic stress and uncertainty. Furthermore, if the rental and leasing markets deteriorate, including by decreasing occupancy rates and decreasing market rental rates, it could reduce cash flow from the mortgage loan pools underlying our CMBS investments. The market for CRE securities is dependent upon liquidity for refinancing and may be negatively impacted by a slowdown in new issuance.Additionally, CRE securities such as CMBS may be subject to particular risks, including lack of standardized terms and payment of all or substantially all of the principal only at maturity rather than regular amortization of principal. The value of CRE securities may change due to shifts in the market’s perception of issuers and regulatory or tax changes adversely affecting the CRE debt market as a whole. Additional risks may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property, as well as the general risks relating to the net operating income from and value of any commercial property. The exercise of remedies and successful realization of liquidation proceeds relating to CRE securities may be highly dependent upon the performance of the servicer or special servicer. Expenses of enforcing the underlying mortgage loan (including litigation expenses) and expenses of protecting the properties securing the loan may be substantial. Consequently, in the event of a default or loss on one or more loans contained in a securitization, we may not recover a portion or all of our investment. Ratings for CRE securities can also adversely affect their value.We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses.We may invest in unrated or non-investment grade CRE securities, enter into leases with unrated tenants/operators or participate in subordinate, unrated or distressed mortgage loans. The non-investment grade ratings for these assets typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans or securities, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. Because the ability of obligors of properties and mortgages, including mortgage loans underlying CMBS, to make rent or principal and interest payments may be impaired during an economic downtown, prices of lower credit quality investments and CRE securities may decline. As a result, these investments may have a higher risk of default and loss than investment grade rated assets. The existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments. Any loss we incur may be significant and may reduce distributions to stockholders and may adversely affect the value of our common stock.We invest in CDO notes and such investments involve significant risks.We repurchased N-Star CDO bonds originally issued to third parties at discounts to par and may invest in other third-party CDO notes. We may not realize the value we expect, if any, in connection with our repurchase of the N-Star CDO bonds. CDOs are multiple class securities secured by pools of assets, such as CMBS, mortgage loans, subordinate mortgage and mezzanine loans and REIT debt. Like typical securitization structures, in a CDO, the assets are pledged to a trustee for the benefit of the holders of the CDO bonds. Like CMBS, CDO notes are affected by payments, defaults, delinquencies and losses on the underlying loans or securities. To the extent we retain or invest the equity interests of a CDO, we are entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the senior securities and its expenses. We own the equity interests in all of our N-Star CDO financing transactions whether or not we consolidate these transactions on our balance sheet. There may be little or no income or principal available to the holders of CDO equity interests if defaults or losses on the underlying collateral exceed a certain amount. In that event, the value of our investment in any equity interest of a CDO could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity interests of CDOs are illiquid and often must be held by a REIT and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity interests will generally have greater fluctuations than the value of the underlying collateral. We could also be subject to litigation related to our legacy CDO business, which could be costly to defend and distracting to management and there is no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation if it were to arise.Some of our investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by us and, as a result, there may be uncertainty as to the value of these investments.Some of our investments are recorded at fair value but will have limited liquidity or will not be publicly traded. The fair value of these investments that have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We will estimate the fair value of these investments on a quarterly basis. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on numerous estimates and assumptions, our determinations of fair value may differ 40Table of Contents materially from the values that would have been used if a readily available market for these securities existed. If our determination regarding the fair value of these investments are materially different than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.Higher provision for loan losses and asset impairment charges are expected if economic conditions do not continue to improve.We could experience defaults resulting in provision for loan losses and asset impairment charges in the future. In challenging economic environments, borrowers, for a variety of reasons, may be unable to remain current with principal and interest on loans. Declines in real property values also increase loan-to-value ratios on our loans and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the likelihood of higher provision for loan losses. Even if our cash flow remains relatively stable, we could suffer losses in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which could adversely affect our stock price, access to credit and ability to satisfy financing covenants.Provision for loan losses are difficult to estimate, particularly in a challenging economic environment.Our provision for loan losses is evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our determination of provision for loan losses requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which may be difficult to determine, particularly in a challenging economic environment. While CRE fundamentals have improved, the U.S. and global economy and financial markets remain challenged. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flow from the collateral securing our CRE debt, structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for refinancing and expected market discount rates for varying property types, all of which remain uncertain and are subjective. Our estimates and judgments may not be correct, particularly during challenging economic environments, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted.Risks Relating to Other InvestmentsOur investment in manufactured housing communities may not be successful.As of December 31, 2014, $1.6 billion of our assets were invested in manufactured housing communities comprised of 123 manufactured housing communities totaling approximately 29,000 pad rental sites. We are reliant, in substantial part, on the experience of a third-party operator to manage these assets on our behalf. Effectively managing these assets requires significant experience and there is no assurance that we or our third-party operator will be successful in maintaining or improving occupancy and otherwise preserving and increasing the value of these assets. Our investment in these assets may not generate the cash flow we anticipate or otherwise perform as expected. We could experience losses in these assets, which would negatively impact our operating performance and CAD.We have significant investments in real estate private equity funds and there is no assurance these investments will achieve the returns expected upon initial execution of the respective investments.As of December 31, 2014, $1.2 billion of our assets were invested in PE Investments. Our PE Investments may not achieve the anticipated returns we initially expected. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, the possibility that: (i) the agreed upon NAV does not necessarily reflect the fair value of the fund interests on such date and the current fair value could be materially different; (ii) the actual amount of future capital commitments underlying all of the fund interests that will be called and funded by us could vary materially from our expectations; and (iii) because, among other matters, the sponsors of the private equity funds, rather than us, will control the investments in those funds, we could lose some or all of our investment. Furthermore, certain of our PE Investments are co-invested with NorthStar Income, which increases the likelihood that we could have conflicts of interest with that company. We have in the past and expect to continue to make opportunistic investments that may involve asset classes and structures with which we have less familiarity, thereby increasing our risk of loss.We have in the past and may in the future also determine to invest in residential real estate and other asset classes with which we have limited or no prior experience. When investing in asset classes with which we have limited or no prior experience, we may not be successful in our diligence and underwriting efforts. We may also be unsuccessful in preserving value, especially if conditions deteriorate, and we may expose ourselves to unknown substantial risks. Furthermore, these assets could require additional management time and attention relative to assets with which we are more familiar. All of these factors increase our risk of loss.41Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financing StrategyWe may not be able to access financing sources on attractive terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We require outside capital to fund and grow our business. Our business may be adversely affected by disruptions in the debt and equity capital markets and institutional lending market, including the lack of access to capital or prohibitively high costs of obtaining or replacing capital, both domestically and abroad. A primary source of liquidity for us has been the debt and equity capital markets, including issuances, directly or indirectly, of common equity, preferred equity, trust preferred securities and exchangeable senior notes, as well as notes in securitization financing transactions. Access to the capital markets and other sources of liquidity were severely disrupted during the recession that began in 2008. Despite recent improvements, the markets could suffer another severe downturn and another liquidity crisis could emerge. Based on the current conditions, we do not know whether any sources of capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain sufficient debt and equity capital on acceptable terms, our business and our ability to operate could be severely impacted. For information about our available sources of funds, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We may be unable to obtain financing required to acquire or originate investments as contemplated in our business plan, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular acquisition or origination and harm our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We expect to fund a portion of our investments with financing. We cannot assure stockholders that financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to satisfy the conditions precedent required to use our credit facilities, which could reduce the number, or alter the type, of investments that we would make otherwise. This may reduce our income. To the extent that financing proves to be unavailable when needed, we may be compelled to modify our investment strategy to optimize the performance of our portfolio. Any failure to obtain financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business and harm our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We use significant leverage in connection with our investments, which increases the risk of loss associated with our investments.We finance the acquisition and origination of a portion of our investments with mortgage notes, credit facilities, securitization financing transactions and other term borrowings, which may include repurchase agreements. We do not restrict the amount of borrowings that we may incur. As of December 31, 2014, we had $10 billion of borrowings outstanding. While a significant amount of our borrowings may be non-recourse, we are still subject to risk associated with more restrictive recourse borrowings. Although the use of leverage may enhance returns and increase the number of investments that we can make, it may increase our risk of loss, impact of our liquidity and restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. Our substantial borrowings, among other things, may:•require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our borrowings, which will reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities;•require us to maintain minimum unrestricted cash;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•require us to post additional reserves and other additional collateral to support our financing arrangements, which could reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets;•subject us to maintaining various debt, operating income, net worth, cash flow and other covenants and financial ratios;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•restrict our operating policies and ability to make strategic acquisitions, dispositions or exploit business opportunities;•require us to maintain a borrowing base of assets;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have fewer borrowings;•put us in a position that necessitates raising equity capital at a time that is unfavorable to us and dilutive to our stockholders;•limit our ability to borrow additional funds (even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity), dispose of assets or make distributions to stockholders; and42Table of Contents •increase our cost of capital.Our ability to effectively execute our financing strategy depends on various conditions in the financing markets that are beyond our control, including liquidity and credit spreads. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or, with respect to our debt and other investments, on terms that parallel the maturities of the debt originated or acquired, if we are able to obtain additional financing at all. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase agreements may not accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more restrictive recourse borrowings and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flow, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to stockholders, for our operations and for future business opportunities. If alternative financing is not available on favorable terms, or at all, we may have to liquidate assets at unfavorable prices to pay off such financing. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the earnings that we can derive from the assets we acquire or originate.We may not successfully align the maturities of our liabilities with the maturities on our assets, which could harm our operating results and financial condition.Our general financing strategy is focused on the use of “match-funded” structures. This means that we seek to align the maturities of our liabilities with the maturities on our assets in order to manage the risks of being forced to refinance our liabilities prior to the maturities of our assets. In addition, we plan to match interest rates on our assets with like-kind borrowings, so fixed-rate investments are financed with fixed-rate borrowings and floating-rate assets are financed with floating-rate borrowings, directly or indirectly through the use of interest rate swaps, caps and other financial instruments or through a combination of these strategies. We may fail to appropriately employ match-funded structures on favorable terms, or at all. We may also determine not to pursue a fully match-funded strategy with respect to a portion of our financings for a variety of reasons, including our financing of the Griffin-American merger. If we fail to appropriately employ match-funded strategies or determine not to pursue such a strategy, our exposure to interest rate volatility and exposure to matching liabilities prior to the maturity of the corresponding asset may increase substantially, which could harm our operating results, liquidity and financial condition.We use short-term borrowings to finance our investments and we may need to use such borrowings for extended periods of time to the extent we are unable to access long-term financing. This may expose us to increased risks associated with decreases in the fair value of the underlying collateral, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.While we expect to seek non-recourse, non-mark-to-market, long-term financing through securitization financing transactions or other structures, such financing may be unavailable to us on favorable terms or at all. Consequently, we may be dependent on short-term financing arrangements that are not matched in duration to our financial assets. Short-term borrowing through repurchase arrangements, credit facilities and other types of borrowings may put our assets and financial condition at risk. Any such short-term financing may also be recourse to us, which will increase the risk of our investments. In addition, the value of assets underlying any such short-term financing may be marked-to-market periodically by the lender, including on a daily basis. If the fair value of the assets subject to such financing arrangements decline, we may be required to provide additional collateral or make cash payments to maintain the loan-to-collateral value ratio. If we are unable to provide such collateral or cash repayments, we may lose our economic interest in the underlying assets. Further, such borrowings may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash reserves or to set aside unleveraged assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. These facilities may be restricted to financing certain types of assets, such as first mortgage loans, which could impact our asset allocation. In addition, such short-term borrowing facilities may limit the length of time that any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our income generated on such assets. In the event that we are unable to meet the collateral obligations for our short-term financing arrangements, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.Our borrowings restrict our ability to engage in certain activities, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.We have substantial borrowings, many of which contain covenants restricting our ability to engage in certain activities. In August 2014 and September 2014, respectively, we entered into: (i) a $500 million revolving credit facility for a three-year term guaranteed by substantially all of our material wholly-owned subsidiaries; and (ii) a $500 million term loan facility for a one-year term. As of December 31, 2014, we had $215 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility and, as applicable, the term loan documentation contain various affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, obligations to maintain REIT status, limitations on debt, liens and dividends and other restricted payments, as well as financial covenants. We also currently have two loan facilities that provide for an aggregate of up to $240 million to finance eligible loan originations. The instruments governing these credit facilities contain certain typical covenants, including liquidity, market capitalization and leverage covenants. 43Table of Contents In addition, in connection with the Griffin-American merger, various of our indirect subsidiaries (either as borrowers or guarantors) entered into a mortgage loan agreement and three mezzanine loan agreements for an aggregate amount of $2.6 billion and a term loan facility agreement for an aggregate of £223.8 million, each of which contain customary affirmative and negative covenants. We may also obtain additional facilities and increase our lines of credit on existing facilities in the future. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow to service our borrowings, we may default, subject our assets to foreclosure and need to seek protection under bankruptcy laws.Compliance with such covenants restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with such covenants, our liquidity may be materially and adversely affected. Our credit facilities permits us to make significant borrowings, which could require that we generate significant cash flow or access the capital markets to satisfy the payment and other obligations under our credit facilities.We may make significant borrowings in connection with borrowings under our credit facilities. These borrowings may exceed our cash on hand and/or our cash flows from operating activities. Our ability to meet the payment and other obligations under our credit facilities depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow or access capital markets in the future. Our ability to generate cash flow or access capital markets, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our credit facilities. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our credit facilities and other borrowing obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our borrowings, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. There is no assurance we will be able to do any of the foregoing on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our credit facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity.We may not be able to borrow additional amounts under our credit facilities.Certain of our borrowings may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, such as our revolving credit facility, based on the value of certain investment assets that make up a borrowing base. Such investment assets may fluctuate in value. Decreases in value would reduce our borrowing base and could prevent us from borrowing. In addition, our revolving credit facility includes financial maintenance covenants and non-financial covenants. Breach of any such covenants would block additional borrowings under the facility. Our inability to borrow additional amounts could delay or prevent us from acquiring, financing, and completing desirable investments and could negatively affect our liquidity, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Inability to borrow could also prevent us from making distributions to our stockholders.We are subject to risks associated with obtaining mortgage financing on our real estate, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.As of December 31, 2014, our real estate portfolio had $8.5 billion of total mortgage financing. We are subject to risks normally associated with financing, including the risks that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal, that we may be unable to refinance existing borrowings or support collateral obligations and that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing borrowing. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions or the sale of the underlying property, our cash flow may not be sufficient in all years to make distributions to stockholders and to repay all maturing borrowings. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, the interest expense relating to that refinanced borrowing would increase, which could reduce our profitability and the amount of distributions we are able to pay to stockholders. Moreover, additional financing increases the amount of our leverage, which could negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or make us more vulnerable in a downturn in our results of operations or the economy generally.Our performance can be negatively affected by fluctuations in interest rates and shifts in the yield curve may cause losses.Our financial performance is influenced by changes in interest rates, in particular, as such changes may affect our CRE securities, floating-rate borrowings and CRE debt to the extent such debt does not float as a result of floors or otherwise. Changes in interest rates, including changes in expected interest rates or “yield curves,” affect our business in a number of ways. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing borrowings and hedges. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect, among other things, our ability to acquire CRE securities, acquire or originate CRE debt at attractive prices and enter into hedging transactions. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control.44Table of Contents Interest rate changes may also impact our net book value as our CRE securities and hedge derivatives are marked to market each quarter. Generally, as interest rates increase, the value of our fixed rate securities decreases, which will decrease the book value of our equity.Furthermore, shifts in the U.S. Treasury yield curve reflecting an increase in interest rates would also affect the yield required on our CRE securities and therefore their value. For example, increasing interest rates would reduce the value of the fixed rate assets we hold at the time because the higher yields required by increased interest rates result in lower market prices on existing fixed rate assets in order to adjust the yield upward to meet the market, and vice versa. This would have similar effects on our CRE securities portfolio and our financial position and operations as a change in interest rates generally.In addition, a substantial portion of our existing borrowings and the new borrowings bear interest at variable rates. For example, the financing for the acquisition of the Griffin-American Portfolio includes U.S. and U.K.-based borrowings, with a floating rate component of $1.2 billion of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2014, with a weighted average interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.10% and three-month LIBOR plus 4.25%, respectively. Additionally, our revolving credit facility of $500 million bears interest at a floating rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.50%. If market interest rates increase, the interest rate on our variable rate borrowings will increase and will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow and could adversely impact our results of operations. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher debt service requirements, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk.Our interest rate risk sensitive assets, liabilities and related derivative positions are generally held for non-trading purposes. As of December 31, 2014, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in one-month LIBOR applied to our floating-rate assets and liabilities (including derivatives) would result in a decrease in net interest income of approximately $36 million annually, of which $26 million of the change is attributable to floating rate financing of hotel and healthcare operating real estate and does not reflect the potential increase in rental cash flow associated with economic growth that may be typical in a rising interest rate environment.In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate assets or LIBOR capped floating rate assets would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability.Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets less our operating costs, reduced by any credit losses and financing costs. Income from our assets may respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may influence our net income. Increases in these rates may decrease our net income. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding the income from our assets could result in losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing borrowings during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on those investments, which would adversely affect our profitability.Hedging against interest rate and currency exposure may adversely affect our earnings, limit our gains or result in losses, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders.We may enter into swap, cap or floor agreements or pursue other interest rate or currency hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on interest rate levels, currency exposure, the type of investments held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate and/or currency hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:•interest rate and/or currency hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;•available interest rate and/or currency hedging may not correspond directly with the risk for which protection is sought;•the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset;•our hedging opportunities may be limited by the treatment of income from hedging transactions under the rules determining REIT qualification;•the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;•the counterparties with which we trade may cease making markets and quoting prices in such instruments, which may render us unable to enter into an offsetting transaction with respect to an open position; •the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and•we may purchase a hedge that turns out not to be necessary, i.e., a hedge that is out of the money.45Table of Contents Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate and/or currency risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates or exchange rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not be able to establish a perfect correlation between hedging instruments and the investments being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. We may also be exposed to liquidity issues as a result of margin calls or settlement of derivative hedges.Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearinghouse or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs.The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument lengthens and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no regulatory or statutory requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure stockholders that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.Refer to the below risk factor “The direct or indirect effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010 for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, may have an adverse effect on our interest rate hedging activities” for a discussion of how the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, may affect the use of hedging instruments.Our CDO bonds payable have certain coverage tests that are required to be met in order for payments to be made to our equity interests in the N-Star CDOs. Failing coverage tests could significantly impact our cash flow and overall liquidity position.Our CDO bonds payable generally require that the underlying collateral and cash flow generated by the collateral be in excess of the overcollateralization, or OC, and interest coverage, or IC, ratios stipulated in the related indentures. Uncured defaults or rating agency downgrades to underlying collateral will cause decreases in the OC and IC tests. In the event these tests are not met, cash flow that would normally be distributed to us would be used to amortize the senior CDO bonds until the CDO is back in compliance with the tests. As of December 31, 2014, all of our CRE debt N-Star CDOs were in compliance with their OC and IC tests. Certain of our remaining N-Star securities CDOs were out of compliance with their respective OC tests and we expect that complying with OC and IC tests will continue to be difficult. We may be unable to prevent adverse conditions that could adversely affect our CDO coverage tests and our operating results, liquidity and cash flow.The reinvestment period for all of our N-Star CDOs have expired, which could adversely affect our cash flow.During the reinvestment period of our N-Star CDOs, we were permitted to reinvest principal payments on the underlying assets into qualifying replacement collateral. Because we are unable to reinvest principal in these N-Star CDOs after the reinvestment period ends, our ability to manage and maintain the OC and IC ratios is limited and principal repayments on investments are redirected to pay down the senior bonds, which delevers the CDO and negatively impacts our cash flow regardless of whether such N-Star CDOs are consolidated or have since been deconsolidated from our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, for certain N-Star CDOs although we have administrative responsibilities relating to the N-Star CDOs, the collateral management rights have been delegated to third parties and as a result, we do not have control over the investments made by such N-Star CDOs. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our legacy CDO business. A payment default on our N-Star CDO bonds could have a compounding effect on other N-Star CDOs.Certain of our N-Star CDOs have invested in CDO bonds issued by other N-Star CDOs that we sponsored and/or acquired. Such investments expose us to increased risk, as defaults in any particular CDO would also affect another CDO that owns 46Table of Contents bonds in the CDO that experiences defaults. Defaults across certain of our N-Star CDOs could, therefore, have a material impact on the cash flow of other N-Star CDOs that we own and would not have otherwise experienced such an impact.The documentation governing our N-Star CDOs is complex and contains certain ambiguities that are subject to interpretation.Each of our N-Star CDOs is governed by an indenture, collateral management agreement and other documentation. The documents are complex and collectively describe the conditions upon which we can sell assets and reinvest principal proceeds and set forth covenants and other provisions to which we and the CDOs are subject. In certain circumstances, the performance of the underlying CDO collateral has raised ambiguities in our CDO documentation. We could take a position, inadvertently or otherwise, that a court ultimately determines constitutes a breach of the underlying agreements and the results of such a determination could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.We may be unable to complete additional securitization financing transactions due to, among other things, a decrease in liquidity in the CRE market.For CRE debt and securities investments originated or acquired prior to 2010, we accessed the securitization markets to obtain non-recourse, non-mark-to-market, permanent financing which were structured as CDOs. In November 2012 and in August 2013, we and on behalf of NorthStar Income, entered into two securitization financing transactions, however, we may be unable to complete similar transactions in the future due to several factors, including decreased liquidity in the CRE market. If we are unsuccessful in accessing this market, we may be exposed to less favorable financing terms, if any, which could adversely affect our business.If we breach representations or warranties that we made in our securitization financing transactions, or if either we or NorthStar Income suffer a loss in our retained interests in that transaction, our financial condition could be harmed.In November 2012, we closed a securitization financing transaction collateralized by $351 million of CRE debt directly originated by us and NorthStar Income. We, through our subsidiaries, contributed five CRE debt investments with a $152 million aggregate principal balance to the securitization financing transaction and NorthStar Income, through its subsidiaries, contributed nine CRE debt investments with a $199 million aggregate principal balance. This transaction involved the issuance and sale of a total of $228 million of investment-grade bonds. Affiliates of ours and NorthStar Income retained all of the below investment-grade bonds with an affiliate of ours retaining $54 million of a total of $124 million, representing our equity interest in the CRE debt we contributed to the securitization financing transaction. This is the first such financing transaction we had completed in several years.In connection with the securitization financing transaction, certain of our subsidiaries made certain customary representations, warranties and covenants. If there is a breach of those representations and warranties or a defect in the documentation of any of the contributed assets, which breach or defect materially and adversely affects the value of the subject contributed asset, the value of the related mortgaged property or the interests of the trustee therein, then we will be required to either cure the breach, repurchase the affected contributed asset from the issuing entity, replace the affected contributed asset with another asset or make a loss of value payment, as the case may be. Any such loss could be material and have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Further in connection with this transaction, since we and NorthStar Income both contributed assets into a single securitization, we entered into a partnership agreement with NorthStar Income that provides that both parties will receive the economic benefit and bear the economic risk associated with the assets each contributed into the securitization. In both cases, a portion of our and NorthStar Income’s respective retained interests will be subordinate to interests of the senior bondholders. In the event that we or NorthStar Income suffers a complete loss of a portion of the respective retained interests, any additional losses would be borne by the remaining retained interests held by us or NorthStar Income, as the case may be, prior to the senior bondholders.We may enter into similar transactions in the future and those transactions could likely entail similar and other substantial risks.Our exchangeable senior notes are recourse obligations to us.As of December 31, 2014, $46 million of our exchangeable senior notes were outstanding, of which we may be required to repurchase $13 million, $1 million and $32 million in June 2017, June 2019 and June 2023, respectively. These amounts are full recourse obligations of our company. If we are not able to extend, refinance or repurchase these borrowings, we may not have the ability to repay these amounts when they come due. Our inability to repay any of our exchangeable senior notes could cause the acceleration of our borrowings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.Our exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions.The indenture agreements governing our exchangeable senior notes contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of borrowings under other agreements. If a cross-default occurred, we 47Table of Contents may not be able to pay our liabilities or access capital from external sources in order to refinance our borrowings. If some or all of our borrowings default and it causes a default under other borrowings, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.The holders of our exchangeable senior notes may elect to exchange those notes prior to maturity and we may be required to use common stock, cash or both to satisfy our exchange obligations.Our exchangeable senior notes may be exchanged at any time prior to maturity at the option of the holder in accordance with the terms of the applicable indenture. In December 2013, we made a revocable election to satisfy our exchange obligations with shares of our common stock for the principal amount of the notes, as determined in accordance with the applicable indenture. We may change our election at any time in accordance with the terms of the applicable indentures and elect to satisfy all exchanges with a combination of cash and common stock, rather than only common stock. In 2015 to date, we exchanged an aggregate of $6 million principal amount of exchangeable senior notes and settled all such exchanges in shares of our common stock. These exchanges, as well as any additional exchanges we may effect in the future through settlement with shares of our common stock, will exacerbate the dilutive effects to our stockholders. If we determine to use only cash to exchange our notes rather than stock, our liquidity could be negatively impacted. If the price of our common stock continues to rise and our distributions continue to increase, the economic incentive to exchange our notes will likely increase.Risks Related to Our CompanyOur ability to operate our business successfully would be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us.Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our key personnel, including our executive officers, which include our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, David T. Hamamoto, our President, Albert Tylis, and our Chief Investment and Operating Officer, Daniel R. Gilbert, in particular. For instance, the extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and the nature of the relationships they have developed with real estate professionals and financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. We cannot assure stockholders of their continued employment with us. The loss of services of certain of our executive officers could harm our business and our prospects.Our board of directors has adopted, and will likely in the future adopt, certain incentive plans to create incentives that will allow us to retain and attract the services of key employees. These incentive plans may be tied to the performance of our common stock and a decline in our stock price may result in us being unable to motivate and retain our management and these other employees. Our inability to motivate and retain these individuals could also harm our business and our prospects. Additionally, competition for experienced real estate professionals could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract qualified employees, which could result in higher compensation expenses to us. If our ability to issue equity awards to employees is limited, it will require us to award greater cash compensation in relation to previous levels of cash compensation, which will reduce our liquidity and could impact our ability to retain key employees.We have historically paid a substantial portion of our overall compensation in the form of equity awards. We may at times have limited availability under our incentive plans to issue equity awards to our employees. We may seek stockholder approval for additional equity awards and there is no assurance stockholders would grant such approval. In addition, we are required to issue equity awards to NSAM employees at NSAM’s request under the terms of our management agreement. To the extent we do not have sufficient equity awards available, we may have to compensate our employees in a greater proportion of cash relative to historical periods. Because CAD excludes equity-based compensation expense, payment of higher levels of cash relative to equity awards will have a negative impact on CAD and reduce our liquidity position. Additionally, the lack of availability of equity awards could impact our ability to retain employees as equity awards historically have been a significant component of our long-term incentives.We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business.As a diversified CRE company, our business is highly dependent on information technology systems, including systems provided by NSAM and third parties for which we have no control. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the information technology systems, but any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Potential sources for disruption, damage or failure of our information technology systems include, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, human error, cyber attacks, natural disasters and defects in design. Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations. We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that resides on or is transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control 48Table of Contents access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of contracts, reputational harm or legal liability.We have in the past and may continue to grow our business through acquisitions of assets or other companies which entails substantial risk.We may determine to continue growing our business through the acquisition of assets or other companies. Such acquisitions entail substantial risk. During our due diligence of such acquisitions, we may not uncover all relevant liabilities and we may have limited, if any, recourse against the sellers. We may also incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with acquisitions. Further, we may not successfully integrate the assets or company that we acquire into our business and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent and make riskier investments.We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from and possibly riskier than the investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and commercial real estate market fluctuations.We may undergo future restructurings, including spin-offs of certain of our assets, which may not be successful.We may in the future determine to restructure our organization and/or assets, including potentially spinning off certain of our assets as we did in 2014 with the NSAM Spin-off. Any such restructurings may not achieve the intended strategic and financial benefits or any benefits at all. In the event that any such restructuring does not achieve expected benefits, such restructuring could have a negative effect on our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.We believe CAD, a non-GAAP measure, provides a meaningful indicator of our operating performance; however, CAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as an indicator of operating performance.Management uses CAD to evaluate our profitability and our board of directors will consider CAD in determining our quarterly cash distributions. CAD is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe that CAD is useful because it adjusts net income (loss) for a variety of non-cash items. We calculate CAD by subtracting from or adding to net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, non-controlling interests and the following items: depreciation and amortization items including depreciation and amortization, straight-line rental income or expense, amortization of above/below market leases, amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of discount on financings and other and equity-based compensation; cash flow related to N-Star CDO equity interests; accretion of consolidated N-Star CDO bond discounts; non-cash net interest income in consolidated N-Star CDOs; unrealized gain (loss) from the change in fair value; realized gain (loss) on investments and other, excluding accelerated amortization related to sales of CDO bonds or other investments; provision for loan losses, net; impairment on depreciable property; bad debt expense; deferred tax benefit (expense); acquisition gains or losses; distributions and adjustments related to joint venture partners; transaction costs; foreign currency gains (losses); impairment on goodwill and other intangible assets; gains (losses) on sales; and one-time events pursuant to changes in U.S. GAAP and certain other non-recurring items. In future periods, such adjustments may include other one-time events pursuant to changes in U.S. GAAP and certain other non-recurring items. These items, if applicable, include any adjustments for unconsolidated ventures.CAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss), determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as an indicator of operating performance. In addition, our methodology for calculating CAD may differ from the methodologies used by other comparable companies, including other REITs, when calculating the same or similar supplemental financial measures and may not be comparable with these companies. For example, our calculation of CAD per share does not take into account any potential dilution from our exchangeable senior notes or warrants outstanding, or restricted stock units subject to performance metrics not yet achieved.The use of estimates and valuations may be different from actual results, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, establishing provision for loan losses and potential litigation liability. Market volatility may make it difficult to determine the fair value for certain of our assets and liabilities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these financial instruments in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these assets and liabilities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time for that particular type of asset and may be materially lower than our estimate of their current fair value. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual values and results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.49Table of Contents Our distribution policy is subject to change.Our board of directors determines an appropriate common stock distribution based upon numerous factors, including REIT qualification requirements, the amount of cash flow generated from operations, availability of existing cash balances, borrowing capacity under existing credit agreements, access to cash in the capital markets and other financing sources, our view of our ability to realize gains in the future through appreciation in the value of our assets, general economic conditions and economic conditions that more specifically impact our business or prospects. Our board of directors reviewed changes to our distribution policy on a quarterly basis in 2014 but may review such policy less frequently in the future. Future distribution levels are subject to further adjustment based upon any one or more of the risk factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other factors that our board of directors may, from time-to-time, deem relevant to consider when determining an appropriate common stock distribution and our distribution level could remain flat or decline.We may not be able to make distributions in the future.Our ability to generate income and to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any document we file with the SEC. All distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable law, and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time-to-time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future.Our ability to make distributions is limited by the requirements of Maryland law.Our ability to make distributions on our common stock is limited by the laws of Maryland. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland corporation may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its liabilities as the liabilities become due in the usual course of business, or generally if the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we may not make a distribution on our common stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our liabilities as they become due in the usual course of business or generally if our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any series of preferred stock then outstanding, if any, with preferences senior to those of our common stock.Stockholders may experience substantial dilution.We have in the past and may continue to undertake numerous and substantial offerings of our common stock and securities that are convertible into our common stock. If we continue to engage in such offerings, whether through the public markets or in private placements, our existing stockholders may experience immediate and substantial dilution in their percentage ownership of our outstanding common stock. Furthermore, stockholders may experience dilution in the value of their shares depending on the terms and pricing of any new issuances and the value of our assets at such time. Stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face as stockholders.Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding growth, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. We may change our investment policies without stockholder notice or consent, which could result in investments that are different than, or in different proportion than, those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, and our charter, stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board of directors’ broad discretion in setting policies and stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders face.Risks Related to Regulatory Matters and Our REIT Tax StatusWe are subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies and failure to comply with these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We and our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies. Given our organizational structure, we are subject to regulation by the SEC, NYSE, IRS, and other federal, state and local governmental bodies and agencies. These regulations are extensive, complex and require substantial management time and attention. If we fail to comply with any of the regulations that apply to our business, we could be subjected to extensive investigations as well as substantial penalties and our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Our lack of compliance with applicable law could result in, among other penalties, our ineligibility to contract with and receive revenue from the federal government or other governmental authorities and agencies. We also have numerous contractual obligations 50Table of Contents that we must adhere to on a continuous basis to operate our business, the default of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have also established internal policies designed to ensure that we manage our business in accordance with applicable law and regulation and in accordance with our contractual obligations. While we have designed policies to appropriately operate our business, these internal policies may not be effective in all regards and, further, if we fail to comply with our internal policies, we could be subjected to additional risk and liability.The direct or indirect effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010 for the purpose of stabilizing or reforming the financial markets, may have an adverse effect on our interest rate hedging activities.In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law in the United States. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act provides for significantly increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that could affect our interest rate hedging or other risk management activities, including: (i) regulatory reporting for swaps; (ii) mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated exchanges or electronic facilities for certain swaps; and (iii) margin and collateral requirements. Although the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has not yet finalized certain requirements, many other requirements have taken effect, such as swap reporting, the mandatory clearing of certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps and the mandatory trading of certain swaps on swap execution facilities or exchanges. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our interest rate hedging activities cannot be assessed until implementing rules and regulations are adopted and market practice develops, the requirements of Title VII may affect our ability to enter into hedging or other risk management transactions, may increase our costs in entering into such transactions and may result in us entering into such transactions on less favorable terms than prior to effectiveness of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events may have an adverse effect on our business. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations.Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We intend to make investments and conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things:•limitations on capital structure; •restrictions on specified investments; •prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and •compliance with reporting, recordkeeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. Excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, are securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses through subsidiaries, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception from the definition of “investment company” in Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own directly, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through these subsidiaries.We must monitor our subsidiaries’ holdings to ensure that we satisfy the 40% test. Through our wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, we will be primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of these subsidiaries, namely the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other interests in real estate.Most of these subsidiaries will rely on the exception from the definition of an investment company under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which is available for entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of a subsidiary’s portfolio must be qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of its portfolio must be qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets (and no more than 20% of miscellaneous assets). For purposes of the exclusions provided by Sections 3(c)(5)(C), we will classify our investments based in large measure on no-action letters issued by the SEC staff and other SEC interpretive guidance and, in the absence of SEC guidance, on our view of what constitutes a qualifying real estate asset and a real estate-related asset. These no-action positions were issued in accordance with factual situations that may be 51Table of Contents substantially different from the factual situations we may face, and a number of these no-action positions were issued more than twenty years ago. In August 2011, the SEC issued a concept release in which it asked for comments on various aspects of Section 3(c)(5)(C), and, accordingly, the SEC or its staff may issue further guidance in the future. Future revisions to the Investment Company Act or further guidance from the SEC or its staff may force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our investment strategy.Certain of our other subsidiaries do not satisfy the 40% test, but instead rely on other exceptions and exemptions from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act that either limit the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or the manner in which these subsidiaries may acquire and sell assets. For instance, certain of our CDOs rely on the exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act provided by Rule 3a-7 thereunder, which is available for certain structured financing vehicles. This exemption limits the ability of these CDOs to sell their assets and reinvest the proceeds from asset sales.The loss of our Investment Company Act exemption could require us to register as an investment company or substantially change the way we conduct our business, either of which may have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock.On August 31, 2011, the SEC published a concept release (Release No. 29778, File No. S7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage Related Instruments), pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in mortgage-backed securities and rely on the exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, such as us, should continue to be allowed to rely on such an exemption from registration. If the SEC takes action with respect to this exemption, these changes could mean that certain of our CDOs and other subsidiaries could no longer rely on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption, and would have to rely on Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7), which would mean that our investment in those subsidiaries would be investment securities. This could result in our failure to maintain our exemption from registration as an investment company.If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, either because of SEC interpretational changes or otherwise, we could, among other things, be required either: (i) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company; or (ii) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters.Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us. This could depress our stock price.Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from acquiring us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:•“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder and us for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and•“control share” provisions that provide that holders of “control shares” of our company (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.Pursuant to the Maryland Business Combination Act, our board of directors has exempted any business combinations: (i) between us and NorthStar Capital Investment Corp. or any of its affiliates; and (ii) between us and any person, provided that any such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements do not apply to business combinations between us and any of them. As a result, such parties may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of stockholders, without compliance with the supermajority vote 52Table of Contents requirements and the other provisions in the statute. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that these resolutions or exemptions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control.Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of stockholders.Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of stockholders.Maryland law also allows a corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in its charter or bylaws, to a classified board, unless its charter prohibits such an election. Our charter contains a provision prohibiting such an election to classify our board of directors under this provision of Maryland law. This may make us more vulnerable to a change in control. If stockholders voted to amend this charter provision and to classify our board of directors, the staggered terms of our directors could reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of stockholders. Our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax and reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders.We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to continue to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal and applicable state and local income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net income available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax.If, for any reason, we failed to continue to qualify as a REIT and we were not entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to so qualify.Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow funds to make distributions to stockholders or otherwise depend on external sources of capital to fund such distributions.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we may elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain. In that case, a stockholder would be taxed on its proportionate share of our undistributed long-term gain and would receive a credit or refund for its proportionate share of the tax we paid. A stockholder, including a tax-exempt or foreign stockholder, would have to file a federal income tax return to claim that credit or refund. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We anticipate that distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income, although a portion of such distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gain to the extent attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that such distribution exceeds our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes.From time-to-time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income (loss) for U.S. GAAP, due to among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, fair value adjustments and reserves. In addition, our taxable income 53Table of Contents may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders as a result of, among other things, repurchases of our outstanding debt at a discount and investments in assets that generate taxable income in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets (for example, if a borrower defers the payment of interest in cash pursuant to a contractual right or otherwise).We believe that the former operating partnership of our predecessor properly elected to defer, under Section 108(i) of the Internal Revenue Code, the recognition of cancellation of indebtedness, or COD, income generated from repurchasing its debt at a discount. If the IRS successfully challenges that election, our predecessor may be treated as having failed to pay sufficient dividends to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and/or avoid the corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. We may be required to correct any failure to meet the 90% distribution requirement by paying deficiency dividends to stockholders and an interest charge to the IRS in a later year.If we do not have other funds available in the situations described in the preceding paragraphs, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to distribute enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity.Because of the distribution requirement, it is unlikely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund future capital needs, we likely will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including both debt and equity financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third‑party sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our stock.Our TRS structure increases our overall tax liability.We have acquired interests in multiple portfolios of hotel and healthcare properties through joint ventures, the Griffin American merger and otherwise. Some of these properties are leased TRSs of ours, which, in turn, engage “eligible independent contractors” to operate such properties. Such an arrangement is referred to as a “RIDEA structure.” We refer to the TRS lessees in our RIDEA structures as our “TRS Lessees.” Our TRS Lessees are subject to federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, which consists of the revenues from the hotel and healthcare properties leased by our TRS Lessees, net of the operating expenses for such properties and rent payments to us. Accordingly, although our ownership of our TRS Lessees allows us to participate in the operating income from our hotel and healthcare properties in addition to receiving rent, that operating income is fully subject to income tax. The after-tax net income of our TRS Lessees is available for distribution to us.Our ownership of TRSs is limited and our transactions with our TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms.A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross operating income from hotels and healthcare properties that are operated by eligible independent contractors pursuant to management agreements. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT's gross assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.Our TRSs are subject to federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRSs is and will continue to be less than 25% of the value of our total gross assets (including our TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm's-length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above.If our leases with our TRS Lessees are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to qualify as a REIT.To qualify as a REIT, we are required to satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel and healthcare property leases with our TRS Lessees, which constitutes a significant portion of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the 54Table of Contents leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. We have structured our leases, and intend to structure any future leases, so that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this characterization, not challenge this treatment or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we could fail to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and could fail to qualify for REIT status.If our hotel and healthcare property managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors”, we could fail to qualify as a REIT.Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We lease all of our hotels and a substantial portion of our healthcare properties to our TRS Lessees. A TRS Lessee will not be treated as a “related party tenant” and will not be treated as directly operating a lodging facility to the extent the TRS Lessee leases properties from us that are managed by an “eligible independent contractor.” In addition, our TRS Lessees will fail to qualify as TRSs if they lease or own a lodging or healthcare facility that is not managed by an “eligible independent contractor.”If our hotel and healthcare property managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each of the hotel and healthcare management companies that enters into a management contract with our TRS Lessees must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRS Lessees to be qualifying income for our REIT income test requirements and for our TRS Lessees to qualify as TRSs. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a manager must not own more than 35% of our outstanding shares (by value) and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the ownership interests of the manager, taking into account only owners of more than 5% of our shares and, with respect to ownership interests in such managers that are publicly traded, only holders of more than 5% of such ownership interests. Complex ownership attribution rules apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds. Although we intend to monitor ownership of our shares by our property managers and their owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded.If the NSAM Spin-off and related restructuring do not qualify as transactions that are generally tax-deferred for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could fail to qualify as a REIT.On June 30, 2014, we distributed to our common stockholders the common stock of NSAM, which owns our former asset management business, in the form of a tax-deferred distribution, or the Distribution. In connection with the Distribution, we received opinions of counsel to the effect that, among other things, the Distribution should be treated as a tax-deferred distribution under Section 355 of the Code. We did not seek or receive a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the tax consequences of the Distribution. The opinions we received were based on our representations and certain assumptions. If the representations or assumptions were untrue or incomplete in any material respect, the Distribution may not be treated as a tax-deferred transaction. Moreover, the opinions we received were based on existing U.S. federal income tax law, which is subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis, and are not binding on the IRS or any court. Accordingly, no assurance can be provided that the opinions we received will not be successfully challenged by the IRS.If the Distribution did not qualify as a tax-deferred distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the NSAM common stock distributed over our adjusted tax basis in such stock. The gain from that taxable sale may cause us to fail to satisfy the 75% gross income test. Unless that failure qualifies for a statutory “REIT savings provision,” we would fail to qualify as a REIT for our 2014 taxable year and would be prohibited from electing REIT status for the following four taxable years. Even if the Distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-deferred distribution, it might be taxable to us under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code if 50% or more of either the total voting power or the total fair market value of our stock or the NSAM stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. If Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code applies as a result of such an acquisition, we would recognize a taxable gain as described above.We would incur adverse tax consequences if Griffin-American failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.We recently completed the acquisition of Griffin-American via a merger. In connection with the closing of the merger, we received an opinion of counsel to the effect that Griffin-American qualified to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes through the closing date of the merger. In connection with the merger, Griffin-American ceased to exist as a separate REIT. However, if Griffin-American failed to qualify as a REIT prior to the merger, the combined company generally would succeed to or incur significant tax liabilities (including the significant tax liability that would result from the deemed sale of assets by Griffin-American pursuant to the merger). Additionally, the combined company could possibly lose its REIT qualification should the activities that disqualified Griffin-American continue after the merger. 55Table of Contents For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Internal Revenue Code, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we makes any distributions to our stockholders. Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our stockholders. Furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we failed to qualify.We could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT and/or pay additional taxes if the IRS recharacterizes certain of our international investments.We have recently made, and intend to continue to make, significant property investments in international jurisdictions. We have funded our equity in such investments through the use of instruments that we believe will be treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes. If the IRS disagreed with such characterization and was successful in recharacterizing the nature of our investments in international jurisdictions, we could fail to satisfy one or more of the asset and gross income tests applicable to REITs. Additionally, if the IRS recharacterized the nature of our investments and we were to take action to prevent such REIT test failures, the actions we would take could expose us to increased taxes both internationally and in the United States.We could be subject to increased taxes if the tax authorities in various international jurisdictions were to modify tax rules and regulations on which we have relied in structuring our international investments.We currently receive favorable tax treatment in various international jurisdictions through tax rules, regulations, tax authority rulings, and international tax treaties. Should changes occur to these rules, regulations, rulings or treaties, we may no longer receive such benefits, and consequently, the amount of taxes we pay with respect to our international investments may increase.We could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT if the IRS successfully challenges our treatment of our mezzanine loans and repurchase agreements.We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. If the IRS disagrees with the application of these provisions to our assets or transactions, including with respect to assets we have owned in past transactions, our REIT qualification could be jeopardized. For example, IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in Revenue Procedure 2003-65, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests and interest derived from it will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the 75% income test. Although Revenue Procedure 2003-65 provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. Moreover, our mezzanine loans typically do not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in mezzanine loans in a manner that we believe will enable us to continue to satisfy the REIT gross income and asset tests. In addition, we have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our mortgage assets to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we will be treated for federal income tax purposes as the owner of the mortgage assets that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement notwithstanding that we transferred record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the mortgage assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. Even if the IRS were to disagree with one or more of our interpretations and we were treated as having failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, we could maintain our REIT qualification if our failure was excused under certain statutory savings provisions. However, there can be no guarantee that we would be entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions if we failed to satisfy one of the REIT qualification requirements, and even if we were entitled to benefit from those statutory savings provisions, we could be required to pay a penalty tax.The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.The IRS has issued Revenue Procedure 2003-65, which provides a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan that is secured by interests in a pass-through entity will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT tests, and interest derived from such loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. We originated and acquired and will continue to originate and acquire mezzanine loans that do not satisfy all of the requirements for reliance on the safe harbor set forth in the Revenue Procedure. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the tax treatment of such loans, which could jeopardize our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT.56Table of Contents Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of taking title to collateral, the federal alternative minimum tax and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through TRSs.Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to stockholders and the ownership of our stock. As discussed above, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Additionally, we may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise attractive to us in order to satisfy the source of income requirements for qualifying as a REIT.We must also ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs.If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences, unless certain relief provisions apply. As a result, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of profit maximization and may require us to liquidate investments from our portfolio, or refrain from making, otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to stockholders.Modification of the terms of our CRE debt investments and mortgage loans underlying our CMBS in conjunction with reductions in the value of the real property securing such loans could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.Our CRE debt and securities investments have been and may continue to be materially affected by a weak real estate market and economy in general. As a result, many of the terms of our CRE debt and the mortgage loans underlying our CRE securities may be modified to avoid taking title to a property and for other reasons. Under the Internal Revenue Code, if the terms of a loan are modified in a manner constituting a “significant modification,” such modification triggers a deemed exchange of the original loan for the modified loan. In general, under applicable Treasury Regulations, or the Loan-to-Value Regulation, if a loan is secured by real property and other property and the highest principal amount of the loan outstanding during a taxable year exceeds the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date we agreed to acquire the loan or the date we significantly modified the loan, a portion of the interest income from such loan will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, but will be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Although the law is not entirely clear, a portion of the loan will likely be a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test. The non-qualifying portion of such a loan would be subject to, among other requirements, the requirement that a REIT not hold securities possessing more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, or the 10% Value Test.IRS Revenue Procedure 2014-51 provides a safe harbor pursuant to which we will not be required to redetermine the fair market value of the real property securing a loan for purposes of the gross income and asset tests discussed above in connection with a loan modification that is: (i) occasioned by a borrower default; or (ii) made at a time when we reasonably believe that the modification to the loan will substantially reduce a significant risk of default on the original loan. No assurance can be provided that all of our loan modifications have or will qualify for the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51. To the extent we significantly modify loans in a manner that does not qualify for that safe harbor, we will be required to redetermine the value of the real property securing the loan at the time it was significantly modified. In determining the value of the real property securing such a loan, we generally will not obtain third-party appraisals, but rather will rely on internal valuations. No assurance can be provided that the IRS will not successfully challenge our internal valuations. If the terms of our CRE debt investments and mortgage loans underlying our CMBS are “significantly modified” in a manner that does not qualify for the safe harbor in Revenue Procedure 2014-51 and the fair market value of the real property securing such loans has decreased significantly, we could fail the 75% gross income test, the 75% asset test and/or the 10% Value Test. Unless we qualified for relief under certain Internal Revenue Code cure provisions, such failures could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.57Table of Contents Our ability to invest in distressed debt may be limited by our intention to maintain our qualification as a REIT.We have and may in the future acquire distressed debt, including distressed first mortgage loans, subordinate interests, mezzanine loans and CMBS. In general, under the Loan-to-Value Regulation, if a loan is secured by real property and other property and the highest principal amount of the loan outstanding during a taxable year exceeds the fair market value of the real property securing the loan as of the date we agreed to acquire the loan or the date we significantly modified the loan, a portion of the interest income from such a loan will not be qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, but will be qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Although the law is not entirely clear, a portion of the loan will also likely be a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test. The non-qualifying portion of such a loan would be subject to, among other requirements, the 10% Value Test. IRS Revenue Procedure 2014-51 provides a safe harbor under which the IRS has stated that it will not challenge a REIT’s treatment of a loan as being, in part, a qualifying real estate asset in an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the fair market value of the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT asset testing date; or (ii) the greater of (a) the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date the REIT committed to acquire or originate the loan; or (b) the current value of the real property securing the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT testing date. Additionally, Revenue Procedure 2014-51 states that the IRS will treat a distressed debt as producing a significant amount of non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test. Specifically, Revenue Procedure 2014-51 indicates that interest income on distressed debt will be treated as qualifying income based on the ratio of (i) fair market value of the real property securing the debt determined as of the date we committed to acquire the debt and (ii) the face amount of the debt (and not the purchase price of the debt). The face amount of a distressed debt will typically exceed the fair market value of the real property securing the debt on the date we commit to acquire the debt. Because distressed debt may produce a significant amount of non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test and a significant portion of a distressed debt may be treated as a non-qualifying asset for the REIT asset tests once the debt increases in value, we may be limited in our ability to invest in distressed debt and maintain our qualification as a REIT.Our investments in distressed debt may produce “phantom income” that will increase the amount of taxable income we have to distribute to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and may cause us to sell assets, borrow or make taxable distributions of debt or equity securities to satisfy that requirement.Our acquisition of distressed debt may cause us to recognize “phantom income” (or non-cash income) for federal income tax purposes. For example, if we acquire non-publicly traded distressed debt and then significantly modify that debt, we would recognize gain on the resulting deemed exchange equal to the difference between the adjusted issue price of the distressed debt and our adjusted tax basis in the distressed debt. Because we typically acquire distressed debt at a significant discount, our adjusted tax basis in the distressed debt typically is significantly lower than the adjusted issue price of the distressed debt. Accordingly, if we significantly modify non-publicly traded distressed debt, we may recognize a substantial amount of taxable income without receiving any cash. That “phantom income” will increase the amount of taxable income we are required to distribute to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement. To satisfy that requirement, we may have to sell assets or borrow funds at inopportune times or make taxable distributions of our debt or equity securities.Our acquisition of CRE debt or securities investments may cause us to recognize income for federal income tax purposes even though no cash payments have been received on the debt investments.We may acquire CRE debt or securities investments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. The amount of such discount will generally be treated as a “market discount’’ for federal income tax purposes. If these debt or securities investments provide for “payment-in-kind,’’ we may recognize “original issue discount,’’ or OID, for federal income tax purposes. Moreover, we may acquire distressed debt investments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. If the amendments to the outstanding debt constitute “significant modifications’’ under the applicable Treasury Regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower. In that event, if the debt is considered to be “publicly-traded’’ for federal income tax purposes, the modified debt in our hands may be considered to have been issued with OID to the extent the fair market value of the modified debt is less than the principal amount of the outstanding debt. In the event the debt is not considered to be “publicly traded’’ for federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our cost of purchasing it. Also, certain loans that we originate and certain previously modified debt we acquire in the secondary market may be considered to have been issued with the OID at the time it was modified.In general, we will be required to accrue OID on a debt instrument as taxable income in accordance with applicable federal income tax rules even though no cash payments may be received on such debt instrument.In the event a borrower with respect to a particular debt instrument encounters financial difficulty rendering it unable to pay stated interest as due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income. Similarly, we may be required to accrue interest income with respect to subordinate mortgage-backed securities at the stated rate regardless of when their corresponding cash payments are received.58Table of Contents In order to meet the REIT distribution requirements, it might be necessary for us to arrange for short-term, or possibly long-term, borrowings, or to pay distributions in the form of our shares or other taxable in-kind distributions of property. We may need to borrow funds at times when the market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of a stockholders’ investment. In the event in-kind distributions are made, a stockholder’s tax liabilities associated with an investment in our common stock for a given year may exceed the amount of cash we distribute to stockholders during such year.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations effectively. Our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. Additionally, our gross income from qualifying hedges entered into prior to July 31, 2008 constitutes non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Consequently, our gross income from qualifying hedges entered into prior to July 31, 2008, along with other sources of non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, cannot exceed 25% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. Any hedging income earned by a TRS would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur.Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax on any resulting gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory.Legislative or regulatory tax changes could adversely affect us or stockholders.At any time, the federal income tax laws can change. Laws and rules governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or stockholders.The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to engage in transactions, including disposition of assets and certain methods of securitizing loans, which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than property that we took title to as a result of a default on a debt investment or lease and for which we make a foreclosure property election, but including loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to the prohibited transaction tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that is treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we use for any securitization financing transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Additionally, we may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax upon a disposition of real property. Although a safe-harbor exception to prohibited transaction treatment is available, we cannot assure stockholders that we can comply with such safe harbor or that we will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of real property or may conduct such sales through a TRS.It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax by conducting certain activities through a TRS. However, to the extent that we engage in such activities through a TRS, the income associated with such activities may be subject to a corporate income tax.We also will not be able to use secured financing structures that would create taxable mortgage pools, other than in a TRS.We may recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income, which we would be required to distribute to stockholders, in a year in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP principles or other economic measures.We may recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income in years in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP or other economic measures as a result of the differences between U.S. GAAP and tax accounting methods. For example, we may recognize substantial amounts of COD income for federal income tax purposes (but not for U.S. GAAP purposes) due to discount repurchases of our liabilities, which could cause our REIT taxable income to exceed our U.S. GAAP income. Additionally, we may deduct our capital losses only to the extent of our capital gains and not against our ordinary income, in computing our REIT taxable income for a given taxable year. Finally, certain of our assets and liabilities are marked-to-market for U.S. GAAP purposes but not for tax purposes, which could result in losses for U.S. GAAP purposes that are not recognized in computing our REIT taxable income. Consequently, we could recognize substantial amounts of REIT taxable income and 59Table of Contents would be required to distribute such income to stockholders in a year in which we are not profitable under U.S. GAAP or other economic measures.We may distribute our common stock in a taxable distribution, in which case stockholders may sell shares of our common stock to pay tax on such distributions, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock.We may make taxable distributions that are payable in cash and common stock. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as taxable distributions that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. In addition, the IRS issued a revenue procedure creating a temporary safe harbor that authorized publicly traded REITs to make elective cash/stock distributions, but that temporary safe harbor has expired. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable distributions payable in cash and common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of the dividend, which is treated as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash distributions received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount recorded in earnings with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our foreign TRSs.We have elected to treat several Cayman Islands companies, including issuers in CDO transactions, as TRSs. We will likely be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our investment in the foreign TRSs. Income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations are technically neither actual dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of qualifying income for the 95% gross income test. However, the IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs holding that income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations would be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Private letter rulings may be relied upon only by the taxpayers to whom they are issued and the IRS may revoke a private letter ruling. Based on those private letter rulings and advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, no assurance can be provided that the IRS would not successfully challenge our treatment of such income as qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT.If our foreign TRSs are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and that they would have available to pay their creditors.There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS succeeded in challenging that tax treatment, it would greatly reduce the amount that those foreign TRSs would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us.The stock ownership restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities.To qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock.Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person, including entities, may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of stock of any class or series or more than 9.8% in value or number (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. The board may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any 60Table of Contents proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Despite these restrictions, it is possible that there will be five or fewer individuals who own more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares, which could cause us to fail to continue to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT.These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders.If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of our tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders and stockholders with net operating losses will likely increase.In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income, or UBTI, as defined in Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as UBTI to a tax-exempt entity under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. A foreign stockholder would generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. U.S. stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their net operating losses.Although the law is not entirely clear, the IRS has taken the position that we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income equal to the percentage of our stock held in record name by “disqualified organizations” (generally tax-exempt investors, such as certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts, that are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income). To the extent that our stock owned by “disqualified organizations” is held in street name by a broker-dealer or other nominee, the broker-dealer or nominee would be liable for a tax at the highest corporate rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held on behalf of the “disqualified organizations.” A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are “disqualified organizations.”Excess inclusion income could result if a REIT held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, excess inclusion income also may be generated if a REIT issues liabilities with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments of these liabilities bear a relationship to the payments that the REIT received on mortgage loans or mortgage‑backed securities securing those liabilities. In May 2012, we adopted a policy that we would not acquire any assets or enter into any financing transactions that will produce excess inclusion income for stockholders. We also projected that our existing assets and financing transactions would not produce excess inclusion income for stockholders in 2012 or any future year. Accordingly, we expect that no portion of our dividends will constitute excess inclusion income. However, we could be wrong in our analysis of historic or new investments or we could affirmatively determine to modify our excess inclusion income policy in the future. If any portion of our dividends is attributable to excess inclusion income, then the tax liability of tax-exempt stockholders, foreign stockholders, stockholders with net operating losses, regulated investment companies and other pass-through entities whose record name owners are disqualified organizations and brokers-dealers and other nominees who hold stock on behalf of disqualified organizations will very likely increase.Our qualification as a REIT could be jeopardized as a result of our interest in joint ventures or investment funds.We currently own, and intend to continue to acquire, limited partner or non-managing member interests in partnerships and limited liability companies that are joint ventures or investment funds. If a partnership or limited liability company in which we own an interest takes or expects to take actions that could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT or require us to pay tax, we may be forced to dispose of our interest in such entity. In addition, it is possible that a partnership or limited liability company could take an action which could cause us to fail a REIT gross income or asset test, and that we would not become aware of such action in time to dispose of our interest in the partnership or limited liability company or take other corrective action on a timely basis. In that case, we could fail to continue to qualify as a REIT unless we are able to qualify for a statutory REIT “savings” provision, which may require us to pay a significant penalty tax to maintain our REIT qualification.REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction or net capital gain for this purpose) in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. We intend to make distributions to stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.61Table of Contents To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities, which may delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and may reduce stockholders’ overall return.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets and the amounts we distribute to stockholders. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits and the value of a stockholders’ investment. Distributions paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to other corporate distributions.The maximum tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid by corporations to individuals is 20%. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal ordinary income rate applicable to the individual recipient (subject to a maximum rate of 39.6%), rather than the preferential rate applicable to qualified dividends. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause potential investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay qualified distributions, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.We adopted a policy that we do not currently intend to generate excess inclusion income; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to avoid generating excess inclusion income, which could cause our common stock to become ineligible for inclusion in the Russell indices.In May 2012, we reported that we changed our policy regarding the generation of excess inclusion income, which generally passes through to our tax-exempt stockholders as UBTI. Pursuant to this new policy, we do not intend to acquire any assets or enter into any financing transactions that will produce excess inclusion income for stockholders. We also projected that our existing assets and financing transactions would not generate excess inclusion income in 2012 or any future year. This policy change allowed our common stock to continue to be eligible for inclusion in the Russell indices, such as the Russell 2000 Index. Russell had indicated that it would remove from eligibility any security that has historically generated UBTI and where the issuer has not taken steps to prevent the future generation of such income. As a result of this policy, we may forgo investment opportunities that we would otherwise have considered to be attractive. Furthermore, we could be wrong in our analysis of historic or new investments or we could affirmatively determine to modify the policy in the future, thereby generating excess inclusion income, and, consequently, UBTI, for tax-exempt stockholders. If that is the case, certain of stockholders could suffer unanticipated adverse tax consequences. Furthermore, in such an event, our common stock could become ineligible for inclusion in the Russell indices, which could adversely affect demand for our common stock and its price.Risks Related to the Spin-off of NorthStar Realty Europe Corp.We may not be able to complete the spin-off on the terms anticipated or at all. Our board of directors has unanimously approved a plan to spin-off a portfolio of approximately $2 billion of our European real estate properties into a separate publicly-traded REIT. The spin-off will be effected by means of a taxable pro rata special distribution of the outstanding shares of common stock of NRE, a newly formed company that will be a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, to the holders of our common stock on the record date for the distribution. NRE will be managed by NSAM pursuant to a long term management agreement, on similar terms as our management agreement with NSAM. NRE is expected to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Although we expect the spin-off to be completed in the second half of 2015, there can be no assurance that the spin-off will be completed as anticipated or at all. Our ability to complete the spin-off is subject to, among other things, the registration statement on Form 10 to be filed becoming effective, the submission and approval of an application to list NRE’s common stock on the NYSE, obtaining all necessary consents and approvals, and the final approval and declaration of the distribution by our board of directors. A failure to complete the spin-off could negatively affect the price of our common stock. We have the right not to complete the spin-off if, at any time, our board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that the spin-off is not in our best interests or that market conditions are such that it is not advisable to separate NRE from us. Stockholder approval is not required and will not be sought in connection with the contemplated spin-off.The spin-off may not have the benefits we anticipate.The spin-off of European real estate properties into a separate, public REIT may not have the full or any strategic and financial benefits that we expect or such benefits may be delayed or may not materialize at all. The anticipated benefits of the spin-off are based on a number of assumptions, which may prove incorrect. For example, we believe that investors and analysts will regard NRE’s focused European investment strategy more favorably as a separate company than as part of our existing portfolio and strategy and thus place a greater value on NRE as a standalone REIT than as a business that is a part of our company and may place a value on us after the spin-off that does not properly reflect our enterprise value after the spin-off. In the event that the spin-off does not have these and other expected benefits, the costs associated with the transaction, including aggregate fees payable to NSAM and an expected increase in general and administrative expenses, could have a negative effect on our financial condition and our and NRE’s ability to make distributions to the stockholders of each company.62Table of Contents The combined post-spin-off value of us and NRE common stock may not equal or exceed the pre-spin-off value of our common stock.After the spin-off, our common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE. NRE’s common stock is expected to be listed on the NYSE under the symbol “NRE.” We cannot assure that the combined value of us and NRE after the spin-off, as adjusted for any changes for the combined capitalization of us or NRE, will be equal to or greater than the value of our common stock prior to the spin-off. Until the market has fully evaluated our business without NRE, the value of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Similarly, until the market has fully evaluated the business of NRE, the value of its common stock may fluctuate significantly.NRE may not be able to successfully implement its business strategy. Assuming the spin-off is completed, there can be no assurance that NRE will be able to generate sufficient returns to pay its operating expenses and make satisfactory distributions to its stockholders, or any distributions at all, once it commences operations as an independent company. NRE’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected by the expenses it will incur as a stand-alone public company, including fees paid to NSAM, as its manager, as well as legal, accounting, compliance and other costs associated with being a public company with equity securities traded on the NYSE. In addition, its results of operations and its ability to make or sustain distributions to its stockholders depend on, among other factors, the availability of opportunities to acquire attractive assets in Europe, the level and volatility of interest rates, the availability of adequate short- and long-term financing, conditions in the real estate market, the financial markets and economic conditions, particularly in Europe. Furthermore, most of our expertise to date is in the United States and neither we nor NSAM have owned or managed substantial assets over the long term in international markets. NRE’s ability to achieve its investment objectives and to make distributions to stockholders will depend in substantial part upon the performance of NSAM and its ability to provide NRE with asset management and other services. After the spin-off, we will not be required, and do not intend, to provide NRE with funds to finance its working capital or other cash requirements, so NRE would need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements.Our agreements with NRE may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of the agreements related to NRE’s separation from us, including a separation and distribution agreement and a management agreement between our manager and NRE, will not be negotiated exclusively among unaffiliated third parties. Such terms will be proposed by the officers and employees of us and our manager and are expected to be approved by our board of directors. As a result, these terms may be less favorable to us than the terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties, including the allocation of expenses and fees payable to NSAM by us and NRE following the spin-off. For example, the terms of NRE’s management agreement with our manager will be substantially similar to the terms of our management agreement with NSAM. As a result, our manager will be entitled to earn a management fee from NRE and will be eligible to receive incentive compensation based in part upon NRE’s achievement of hurdles and without regard to our prior performance.The distribution of NRE common stock will not qualify for tax-deferred treatment and may be taxable to you as a dividend; however, the tax impact will not be calculated until after the end of the 2015 calendar year.The distribution of NRE common stock will not qualify for tax-deferred treatment. An amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of NRE common stock received by you on the distribution date (assuming you are a stockholder of us as of the applicable record date), including any fractional shares deemed to be received on the distribution date, will be treated as a taxable dividend to the extent of your share of any of our current or accumulated earnings and profits for the year of the distribution. Any fair market value in the excess of our current or accumulated earnings and profits will be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of your tax adjusted basis in our common stock and then as capital gain. The distribution will not include a distribution of cash, except for certain cash in lieu of fractional shares of NRE common stock, and, thus, you will have to obtain cash from other sources to pay the income tax on this income. In addition, we or other applicable withholding agents may be required or permitted to withhold at the applicable rate on all or a portion of the distribution payable to non-U.S. stockholders, and any such withholding would be satisfied by us or such agent withholding by selling a portion of the NRE stock otherwise distributable to non-U.S. stockholders. Such non-U.S. stockholders may bear brokerage fees or other costs from this withholding procedure. Your adjusted tax basis in our shares held at the time of the distribution will be reduced (but not below zero) to the extent the fair market value of the shares of NRE common stock distributed by us to you in the distribution exceeds your share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Your holding period for your shares of our common stock will not be affected by the distribution. We will not be able to advise you of the amount of our earnings and profits until after the end of the 2015 calendar year.63Table of Contents Although we will be ascribing a value to NRE’s shares in the distribution for tax purposes, and will report that value to stockholders and the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), this valuation is not binding on the IRS or any other taxing authority. These taxing authorities could ascribe a higher valuation to such shares, particularly if NRE’s stock trades at prices significantly above the value ascribed to such shares by us in the period following the distribution. Such a higher valuation may cause a larger reduction in the tax basis of your shares of us or may cause you to recognize additional dividend or capital gain income. You are urged to consult your tax advisor as to the particular tax consequences of the distribution to you.The spin-off could result in increased competition for us for certain desirable European real estate properties.In connection with the spin-off, NRE will participate as an additional managed company in the allocation of investment opportunities by NSAM. Following the spin-off, NRE’s business strategy will be focused on investing primarily on high quality real estate assets in major markets in the UK and Continental Europe. Our investment strategy to acquire diversified CRE assets across multiple asset classes that we expect will generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. Although NRE’s investment strategy is more targeted than ours, our target investments may overlap with those of NRE’s and other companies managed by NSAM. Therefore, investment opportunities that are suitable for us may also be suitable for NRE and other companies managed by NSAM, and may result in limiting our opportunities to invest in properties that could have a positive effect on our financial condition and operating results.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.