Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISK FACTORS Our increased debt service, significant debt covenant requirements and our credit rating could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We have substantial debt service obligations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could have an adverse impact on our stockholders, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations, acquisitions, product development or other corporate initiatives; • our debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants which could significantly impact our ability to operate our business and any failure to comply with them may result in an event of default, which could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness increases our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; 10 Table of Contents • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • our debt service obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures; • our debt service obligations may affect our ability to attract or retain agents on favorable terms; • our ability to pay cash dividends to the holders of our common stock is significantly restricted, and no such dividends are contemplated for at least the next 12 months; and • payment of cash dividends to the holders of the preferred stock in the future could reduce the funds available to us for our operations, acquisitions, product development or other corporate initiatives. Our credit rating is non-investment grade. Together with our leverage, this rating adversely affects our ability to obtain additional financing and increases our cost of borrowing. A non-investment grade rating may also affect our ability to attract and retain certain customers. Our recapitalization significantly diluted the interests of the common stockholders and grants other important rights to the Investors. The Series B Stock issued to the Investors is convertible into shares of common stock or common equivalent stock at the price of $2.50 per common share (subject to anti-dilution rights), giving the Investors an initial equity interest in us of approximately 79 percent. Dividends payable on the Series B Stock have been accrued since inception. If we continue to accrue dividends in lieu of paying in cash, the ownership interest of the Investors will substantially increase and continue to dilute the interests of the common stockholders. With the accrual of dividends, the Investors had an equity interest of 82 percent as of December 31, 2009. The holders of the B Stock vote as a class with the common stock and have a number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock issuable if all outstanding shares of B Stock were converted into common stock plus the number of shares of common stock issuable if all outstanding shares of B-1 Stock were converted into Series D Participating Convertible Preferred Stock and subsequently converted into common stock. As a result, holders of the B Stock are able to determine the outcome of matters put to a stockholder vote, including the ability to elect our directors, determine our corporate and management policies, including compensation of our executives, and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might reduce our share price. THL also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of the Investors will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. In view of their significant ownership stake in the Company, THL, as holders of the B Stock, has appointed four members to our Board of Directors and Goldman Sachs, as holders of the B-1 Stock, has appointed two observers to our Board of Directors. The size of our Board has been set at nine directors, three of which are independent. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, as long as the Investors have a right to designate directors to our Board, Goldman Sachs shall have the right to designate one director who shall have one vote and THL shall have the right to designate two to four directors who shall each have equal votes and who shall have such number of votes equal to the number of directors as is proportionate to the Investors’ common stock ownership, calculated on a fully converted basis assuming the conversion of all shares of Series B Stock into common stock, minus the one vote of the director designated by Goldman Sachs. Therefore, each director designated by THL will have multiple votes and each other director will have one vote. 11 Table of Contents Sustained financial market illiquidity could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global capital and credit markets continue to experience illiquidity. As a result, we may face certain risks. In particular: • We may be unable to liquidate short-term investments, including those held in money market funds that we need to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers and make related settlements to agents. Any resulting need to access other sources of liquidity or short-term borrowing would increase our costs. Any delay or inability to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers or make related settlements with our agents could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Banks upon which we rely to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could fail. This could lead to our inability to access funds and/or to credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses. • Our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source of funding for corporate transactions and liquidity needs. If any of the banks participating in our credit facility were unable or unwilling to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to engage in corporate transactions such as acquisitions could be adversely affected. • We may be unable to borrow from financial institutions or institutional investors on favorable terms which could adversely impact our ability to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions. If current levels of market illiquidity worsen, there can be no assurance we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued weakness in economic conditions, in both the United States and global markets, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our money transfer business relies in part on the overall strength of global economic conditions as well as international migration patterns. Consumer money transfer transactions and migration patterns are affected by, among other things, employment opportunities and overall economic conditions. Our customers tend to have employment in industries such as construction, manufacturing and retail that tend to be more significantly impacted by weak economic conditions than other industries. This may result in reduced job opportunities for our customers in the United States or other countries that are important to our business which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, increases in employment opportunities may lag other elements of any economic recovery. Our agents or billers may have reduced sales or business as a result of weak economic conditions. As a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Our billers may have fewer customers making payments to them, particularly billers in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn such as the automobile, mortgage and retail industries. If general market softness in the United States or other national economies important to the Company’s business were to continue for an extended period of time or deteriorate further, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our consumer transactions decline or migration patterns shift due to deteriorating economic conditions, we may be unable to timely and effectively reduce our operating costs or take other actions in response which could adversely affect our results of operations. A material slow down or complete disruption in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The money transfer business relies in part on migration patterns, as individuals move from their native countries to countries with greater economic opportunities or a more stable political environment. A significant portion of money transfer transactions are initiated by immigrants or refugees sending money back to their native countries. Changes in immigration laws that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, 12 Table of Contents terrorism or health emergencies) that make it more difficult for individuals to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our money transfer remittance volume or growth rate. Sustained weakness in global economic conditions could reduce economic opportunities for migrant workers and result in reduced or disrupted international migration patterns. Reduced or disrupted international migration patterns, particularly in the United States or Europe, are likely to reduce money transfer transaction volumes and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we lose key agents or are unable to maintain our Global Funds Transfer agent or biller networks, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Revenue from our money transfer and urgent bill payment services is derived from transactions conducted through our retail agent and biller networks. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. There are risks associated with the check cashing industry that could cause this agent base to decline. We may not be able to retain all of our current retail agents or billers for other reasons, as the competition for retail agents and billers is intense. If agents or billers decide to leave our agent network, or if we are unable to add new agents or billers to our network, our revenue would decline. Larger agents and billers in our Global Funds Transfer segment are increasingly demanding financial concessions and more information technology customization. The development, equipment and capital necessary to meet these demands could require substantial expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will have the available capital after paying dividends to the Investors and servicing our debt, or that we will be allowed to make such expenditures under the terms of our debt agreements. If we were unable to meet these demands, we could lose customers and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our transaction volume is generated by a limited number of key agents. During 2009 and 2008, our 10 largest agents accounted for 48 percent and 44 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue and 53 percent and 53 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. In 2009 and 2008, our largest agent, Walmart, accounted for 29 percent and 26 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue and 32 percent and 31 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. The term of our agreement with Walmart runs through January 2013. If any of our key agents were not to renew their contracts with us, or if such agents were to reduce the number of their locations, or cease doing business, we might not be able to replace the volume of business conducted through these agents, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Litigation or investigations involving MoneyGram or our agents, which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently the subject of an informal SEC inquiry and stockholder litigation, including a securities class action lawsuit and one lawsuit under ERISA. While we believe the suits are without merit and intend to vigorously defend against such claims, the outcome of the lawsuits cannot be predicted at this time. The cost to defend the stockholder and ERISA litigation could be substantial, regardless of the outcome. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to allegations and complaints that individuals or entities have used our money transfer services for fraud-induced money transfers which may result in fines, settlements and litigation expenses. Regulatory and judicial proceedings and potential adverse developments in connection with ongoing stockholder litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may also be adverse publicity associated with lawsuits and investigations that could decrease agent and customer acceptance of our services. Additionally, our business has been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other general litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies in these lawsuits, actions or investigations may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of these actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend or settle future lawsuits or investigations may be significant. 13 Table of Contents We face credit risks from our retail agents and official check financial institution customers. The vast majority of our Global Funds Transfer segment is conducted through independent agents that provide our products and services to consumers at their business locations. Our agents receive the proceeds from the sale of our payment instruments and money transfers and we must then collect these funds from the agents. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit money order or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer. Moreover, we have made, and may make in the future, secured or unsecured loans to retail agents under limited circumstances or allow agents to retain our funds for a period of time before remitting them to us. As of December 31, 2009, we had credit exposure to our agents of approximately $436.4 million in the aggregate spread across over 14,000 agents, of which five owed us in excess of $15.0 million. Our official checks outsourcing business is conducted through financial institutions. Our official check financial institution customers issue official checks and money orders and remit to us the face amounts of those instruments the day after they are issued. MoneyGram is liable for payment on all of those instruments except cashier’s checks. As of December 31, 2009, we had credit exposure to our official check financial institution customers of approximately $482.0 million in the aggregate spread across 1,700 financial institutions, of which one owed us in excess of $15.0 million. We monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and official check financial institution customers on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that the models and approaches we use to assess and monitor agent and official check financial institution customer creditworthiness will be sufficiently predictive, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to timely mitigate an increased credit risk. In the event of an agent bankruptcy, we would generally be in the position of creditor, possibly with limited security or financial guarantees of performance, and we would therefore be at risk of a reduced recovery. We are not insured against credit losses, except in circumstances of agent theft or fraud. Significant credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face fraud risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as paper instrument counterfeiting, fraud and identity theft. As we make more of our services available over the Internet and other unmanned media, we subject ourselves to new types of consumer fraud risk because requirements relating to customer authentication are more complex with Internet services. Certain former retail agents have also engaged in fraud against consumers or us, and existing agents could engage in fraud against consumers or us. We use a variety of tools to protect against fraud; however, these tools may not always be successful. Allegations of fraud may result in fines, settlements and litigation expenses. Negative economic conditions may result in increased agent or consumer fraud. If consumer fraud levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention and reputational and financial damage. This, in turn, could reduce the use and acceptance of our services or increase our compliance costs and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability of the Company or its agents to maintain adequate banking relationships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on domestic and international banks for international cash management, ACH and wire transfer services to pay money transfers and settle with our agents. We also rely on domestic banks to provide clearing, processing and settlement functions for our paper-based instruments, including official checks and money orders. The Company’s relationships with these banks are a critical component of our ability to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses. An inability on our part to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships sufficient to enable us to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to establish and maintain adequate banking relationships. 14 Table of Contents We rely on a primary international banking relationship for cash management, ACH and wire transfer services. Should we not be successful in maintaining a sufficient relationship with one of the limited number of large international banks that provide these services, we would be required to establish a global network of banks to provide us with these services. This could alter the pattern of settlement with our agents and result in our agent receivables and agent payables being outstanding for longer periods than the current remittance schedule thereby adversely impacting our cash flow and revenue. Maintaining a global network of banks, if necessary, may also increase our overall costs for banking services. We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses in the United States under the Bank Secrecy Act. The federal banking regulators are increasingly taking the stance that Money Service Businesses, as a class, are high risk. As a result, several financial institutions, which look to the federal regulators for guidance, have terminated their banking relationships with some of our agents. If our agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to operate our official check and money order businesses profitably as a result of historically low interest rates and our revised pricing strategies. Our revenues in the official check business are generated primarily by the investment of funds we receive from the sale of official checks. In turn, we pay commissions to our official check financial institution customers based on the outstanding balance produced by that customer’s sale of official checks, calculated at a rate based on short-term variable financial indices, such as the federal funds rate. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the revenue produced by our investment portfolio and the commissions that we pay our official check financial institution customers. There can be no assurance that interest rate fluctuations in our investments will align with the commission rates we pay to our official check financial institution customers. Both our investment revenue and the commissions we pay decrease when interest rates decline and increase when interest rates rise. However, because our commission rates reset more frequently than the rates earned on our investments, changes in investment revenue will lag changes in commission rates. A rising interest rate environment typically has a negative impact on our investment margin. In the past our investments included long-term and medium-term fixed income securities, a portion of which were asset-backed securities. Our investment portfolio now focuses on highly liquid, short-term securities that produce a lower rate of return. As a result, we have reduced the commissions we pay to our official check financial institution customers and have implemented and/or increased per-item and other fees for our official check services. Despite these changes, there can be no assurance that our official check business will operate profitably. Further, our official check financial institution customers have a right to terminate their agreements with us if they do not accept these pricing changes, and we have numerous agreements with these customers that will expire in 2010 and may not be renewed. There can be no assurance that we will retain those official check financial institution customers that we wish to retain. Earnings in our money order business are generated in part by the investment of funds we receive from the sale of money orders. As a result of the composition of our investment portfolio, we earn a lower rate of return on the investment of funds we receive from the sale of money orders. The continued success of our money order business is dependent on our ability to increase money order fees paid to us by our agents. Failure to maintain sufficient capital could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient capital, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions. We may not be able to meet new capital requirements introduced or required by our regulators. Given the leveraged nature of the Company and the significant restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, there can be no assurance that we will have access to sufficient capital. Failure to have such access could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Failure to attract and retain key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a large extent upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. We are in a period of significant change in our executive management team, including vacancies of key positions, and we may face uncertainties in implementing our business strategies and goals as a result. A failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to successfully develop and timely introduce new and enhanced products and services or we make substantial investments in an unsuccessful new product, service or infrastructure change, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced methods of providing money transfer, money order, official check, bill payment and related services that keep pace with competitive introductions, technological changes and the demands and preferences of our agents, financial institution customers and consumers. Many of our competitors offer electronic payment mechanisms, including Internet-based and cellular phone payment services, that could be substituted for traditional forms of payment, such as the money order, bill payment and money transfer services that we offer. If these alternative payment mechanisms become widely substituted for our products and services, and we do not develop and offer similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Additionally, we may make future investments or enter into strategic alliances to develop new technologies and services or to implement infrastructure change to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. Such investments and strategic alliances are inherently risky and we cannot guarantee that such investments or strategic alliances will be successful and if not successful, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand and the intellectual property rights related to our existing and any new or enhanced products and services, or if we are unable to avoid infringing on the rights of others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The MoneyGram® brand is important to our business. We utilize trademark registrations in various countries and other tools to protect our brand. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand, and the value of our brand were to decrease as a result. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We also investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties to prevent our infringement of those rights. We may be subject to claims of third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights or have misappropriated other proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to defend any such claims or to protect and police our own rights. Some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection or to successfully defend against claims of intellectual property infringement could harm our business and prospects. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we face a variety of competitors across our businesses, in particular our largest competitor, The Western Union Company. In addition, new competitors or alliances among established companies may emerge. With respect to our money transfer, urgent bill payment and money order businesses, our primary competition comes from our largest competitor. We cannot anticipate every effect that actions taken by our competitors will have on our business, or the money transfer and bill payment industry in general. Money transfer, money order and bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a concentrated industry, with a small number of large competitors and a large number of small, niche competitors. We also compete with banks and niche person-to-person money transfer service providers. The electronic bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a highly fragmented consumer-to-business payment 16 Table of Contents industry. Competitors in the electronic payments area include financial institutions, third parties that host financial institution and bill payment services, third parties that offer payment services directly to consumers and billers offering their own bill payment services. Our official check business competes primarily with financial institutions that have developed internal processing capabilities or services similar to ours and do not outsource official check services. Financial institutions could also offer competing official check outsourcing services to our existing and prospective official check customers. There can be no assurance that growth in consumer money transfer transactions, bill payment transactions and other payment products will continue. In addition, consolidation among payment services companies has occurred and could continue. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing products, while also growing newly developed and acquired products, we will be unable to compete effectively in the changing marketplace, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. MoneyGram and our agents are subject to a number of risks relating to United States and international regulatory requirements which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties or changes in our or their business operations that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations which vary from country to country. The money transfer business is subject to a variety of regulations aimed at the prevention of money laundering and terrorism. We are subject to United States federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the requirements of the OFAC, which prohibit us from transmitting money to specified countries or on behalf of prohibited individuals. Additionally, we are subject to the anti-money laundering laws in many countries where we operate, particularly in the European Union. We are also subject to financial services regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, escheat laws, as well as privacy and data protection laws. Many of the laws to which we are subject are evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards may increase our costs of operations and may disrupt our business as we develop new business and compliance models. For example, the European Union’s Payment Services Directive (“PSD”) has created a new framework of licensing and other regulations for our business operations in the European Union and imposes a number of new requirements on our business, including greater potential liability on us for the conduct of our agents and the commission of third party fraud utilizing our services. We have modified our business operations in the European Union in light of PSD and will likely experience increased costs of operating in the European Union. In the event we fail to comply with the PSD, our business, financial position and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Additionally, the United States and other countries periodically consider initiatives designed to lower costs of international remittances which, if implemented, may adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards, or interpretations of legal or regulatory requirements may reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely effect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. Any regulatory action that adversely affects check cashers could also cause this portion of our agent base to decline. If onerous regulatory requirements were imposed on our agents, the requirements could lead to a loss of agents, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of retail business. Any intentional or negligent violation by us of the laws and regulations set forth above could lead to significant fines or penalties and could limit our ability to conduct business in some jurisdictions. Regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions are showing a greater inclination than they have in the past to hold money services businesses like ours to higher standards of agent training and monitoring for possible violations of laws and regulations by agents. Our systems, employees and processes may not be sufficient to detect and prevent an intentional or negligent violation of the laws and regulations set forth above by our agents, which could also lead to us being subject to significant fines or penalties. In addition to those direct costs, a failure by us or our agents to comply with applicable 17 Table of Contents laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. Failure by us or our agents to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of applicable regulatory authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. While we have instituted policies and procedures to protect against violations of law, it is possible that our money transfer service or other products could be used by wrong-doers in contravention of United States law or regulations. In addition to monetary fines or penalties that we could incur, we could be subject to reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material breach of security of our systems could adversely affect our business. We obtain, transmit and store confidential customer information in connection with certain of our services. Any significant security breaches in our computer networks, databases or facilities could harm our business and reputation, cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities and cause a loss of customers. We rely on a variety of technologies to provide security for our systems. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect our systems. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our data. If users gain improper access to our or our contractor’s systems or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential customer information. A security breach could expose us to monetary liability, lead to reputational harm and make our customers less confident in our services. Our business is particularly dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money and the management of data necessary to do so. The success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of transactions and data. We rely on the ability of our employees and our internal systems and processes to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or physical break-in), security breach, improper operation, improper action by our employees, agents, customer financial institutions or third party vendors or any other event impacting our systems or processes or our vendors’ systems or processes, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful. We may also experience problems other than system failures, including software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. Certain of our agent contracts, including our contract with Walmart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our system, and give the agent a right to collect damages and in extreme situations a right of termination for system downtime exceeding agreed upon service levels. If we experience significant system interruptions or system failures, our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or damages that we may incur. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively operate and scale our technology to match our business growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to continue to provide our services to a growing number of agents and consumers, as well as to enhance our existing services and offer new services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to effectively manage the technology associated with our business, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and loss of agents or consumers. Any failure of our systems in scalability, reliability and functionality could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of retail locations and acquisition or start-up of businesses create risks and may adversely affect our operating results. We operate Company-owned retail locations for the sale of our products and services. After substantial capital investment to open retail locations, it is uncertain whether these locations will be profitable. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations that are triggered by our ownership of retail locations and our employment of individuals who staff our retail locations. There are also certain risks inherent in operating any retail location, including theft, personal injury and property damage and long-term lease obligations. We may, from time to time, acquire or start up businesses both inside and outside of the United States. The acquisition and integration of businesses, involve a number of risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire or open, including their facilities, personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, we could experience increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The diversion of capital and management’s attention from our core business that results from acquiring or opening new businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are a number of risks associated with our international sales and operations that could adversely affect our business. We provide money transfer services between and among approximately 190 countries and territories and continue to expand in various international markets. Our ability to grow in international markets and our future results could be harmed by a number of factors, including: • changes in political and economic conditions and potential instability in certain regions; • changes in regulatory requirements or in foreign policy, including the adoption of foreign laws detrimental to our business; • possible increased costs and additional regulatory burdens imposed on our business; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations; • possible fraud of theft losses, and lack of compliance by international representatives in foreign legal jurisdictions where collection and legal enforcement may be difficult or costly; • reduced protection for our intellectual property rights; • unfavorable tax rules or trade barriers; • inability to secure, train or monitor international agents; and • failure to successfully manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, in particular with respect to the euro. Unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take could adversely affect our tax expense. We file tax returns and take positions with respect to federal, state, local and international taxation, including positions that relate to our 2007 and 2008 net security losses, and our tax returns and tax positions are subject to review and audit by taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome of a tax review or audit could result in higher tax expense, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We establish reserves for material, 19 Table of Contents known tax exposures. While we believe our reserves are adequate to cover material, known tax exposures, there can be no assurance that an actual taxation event would not exceed our reserves. Because we may be deemed to be a subsidiary of a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act, we may be limited in our ability to engage in other businesses. Because Goldman Sachs is a registered bank holding company, the Federal Reserve Board has the authority to examine and supervise its operations, including the operations of its controlled subsidiaries. We may be deemed a controlled subsidiary of Goldman Sachs. As Goldman Sachs has been approved by the Federal Reserve Board as a financial holding company and because we may be deemed to be an indirect subsidiary of Goldman Sachs, our ability to engage in other businesses may be limited to those permissible for a financial holding company. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to certify and report on our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In order to achieve effective internal controls we may need to enhance our accounting systems or processes which could increase our cost of doing business. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have significant overhang of salable convertible preferred stock relative to float. The trading market for our common stock was first established in June 2004. The float in that market now consists of approximately 82,300,000 shares out of a total of 82,515,119 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009. The Series B Stock issued to the Investors is convertible into shares of common stock or common equivalent stock at the price of $2.50 per common share, subject to anti-dilution rights. Under the Registration Rights Agreement entered into between the Company and the Investors at the closing of the recapitalization, the Investors and other parties may require us to register for sale publicly (at times largely of their choosing) all of the Series B Stock that they hold, as well as any common stock or Series D Participating Convertible Preferred Stock into which the B-1 Stock may be converted. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our common stock. An agreement among the Investors and Walmart could prevent an acquisition of the Company. Effective through March 17, 2010, the Investors and Walmart have an agreement that, among other things, prevents the Investors, without the prior written consent of Walmart, from voting in favor of, consenting to or selling or transferring their equity securities in a manner that would result in a change of control of the Company. The Investors collectively have a majority of the voting stock of the Company and Walmart, whose interests may differ from our stockholders’ interests, could prevent the Investors from agreeing to a sale of the Company under certain circumstances. Our capital structure, charter documents, and Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could inhibit your ability to receive a premium on your investment from a possible sale of the Company. Our current capital structure and certain provisions of our charter documents may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire the Company. The holders of the B Stock would vote as a class with the common stockholders on any proposed business combination and would control the outcome. These matters and certain provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or 20 Table of Contents preventing a merger or change in control of the Company. Some of these matters may discourage a future acquisition of the Company even if common stockholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or if a significant number of our common stockholders believed such a proposed transaction to be in their best interests. As a result, stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. The NYSE requires us to maintain an average closing price of our common stock of $1.00 per share or higher over 30 consecutive trading days as well as to maintain average market capitalization and stockholders’ equity of at least $75 million. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company; and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS None. 