Risk Factors” for additional discussion regarding potential impacts of failure to comply. We continually monitor and enhance our global compliance programs to comply with the most recent legal and regulatory changes. During 2010, we continued to increase our compliance personnel headcount and make investments in our compliance-related technology and infrastructure. 6 Table of Contents Anti-Money Laundering Compliance. Our money transfer services are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations of the United States, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, as well as similar state laws and regulations and the anti-money laundering laws and regulations in many of the countries in which we operate, particularly in the European Union. Countries in which we operate may require one or more of the following: • reporting of large cash transactions and suspicious activity; • screening of transactions against the government’s watch-lists, including but not limited to, the watch list maintained by OFAC; • prohibition of transactions in, to or from certain countries, governments, individuals and entities; • limitations on amounts that may be transferred by a consumer or from a jurisdiction at any one time or over specified periods of time, which require the aggregation of information over multiple transactions; • consumer information gathering and reporting requirements; • consumer disclosure requirements, including language requirements and foreign currency restrictions; • notification requirements as to the identity of contracting agents, governmental approval of contracting agents or requirements and limitations on contract terms with our agents; • registration or licensing of the Company or our agents with a state or federal agency in the United States or with the central bank or other proper authority in a foreign country; and • minimum capital or capital adequacy requirements. Anti-money laundering regulations are constantly evolving and vary from country to country. We continuously monitor our compliance with anti-money laundering regulations and implement policies and procedures to make our business practices flexible, so we can comply with the most current legal requirements. We offer our money transfer services through third-party agents with whom we contract and do not directly control. As a money services business, we and our agents are required to establish anti-money laundering compliance programs that include: (i) internal policies and controls; (ii) designation of a compliance officer; (iii) ongoing employee training and (iv) an independent review function. We have developed an anti-money laundering training manual available in multiple languages and a program to assist with the education of our agents on the various rules and regulations. We also offer in-person and online training as part of our agent compliance training program and engage in various agent oversight activities. Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing — The majority of states in the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands and Guam require us to be licensed to conduct business within their jurisdictions. In November 2009, our primary overseas operating subsidiary, MoneyGram International Ltd, became a licensed payment institution under the European Union Payment Services Directive. Licensing requirements generally include minimum net worth, provision of surety bonds, compliance with operational procedures, agent oversight and the maintenance of reserves or “permissible investments” in an amount equivalent to outstanding payment obligations, as defined by our various regulators. The types of securities that are considered “permissible investments” vary across jurisdictions, but generally include cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other highly rated debt instruments. Most states and our other regulators require us to file reports on a quarterly or more frequent basis to verify our compliance with their requirements. Many states and other regulators also subject us to periodic examinations and require us and our agents to comply with anti-money laundering and other laws and regulations. Escheatment Regulations — Unclaimed property laws of every state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands require that we track certain information on all of our payment instruments and money transfers and, if they are unclaimed at the end of an applicable statutory abandonment period, that we remit the proceeds of the unclaimed property to the appropriate jurisdiction. Statutory abandonment periods for payment instruments and money transfers range from three to seven years. Certain foreign jurisdictions also may have unclaimed property laws, though we do not have material amounts subject to any such law. 7 Table of Contents Privacy Regulations — In the ordinary course of our business, we collect certain types of data that subject us to certain privacy laws in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “GLB Act”), which requires that financial institutions have in place policies regarding the collection, processing, storage and disclosure of information considered nonpublic personal information. We are also subject to privacy laws of various states. In addition, we are subject to laws adopted pursuant to the European Union’s Data Protection Directive (the “Data Protection Directive”). We abide by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Safe Harbor framework principles to assist in compliance with the Data Protection Directive. In some cases, the privacy laws of a European Union member state may be more restrictive than what is required under the Data Protection Directive and may impose additional duties with which we must comply. We also have confidentiality/information security standards and procedures in place for our business activities and with our third-party vendors and service providers. Privacy and information security laws, both domestically and internationally, evolve regularly and conflicting laws in the various jurisdictions where we do business pose challenges. Banking Regulations — We have been informed by Goldman Sachs that the Company was deemed a controlled subsidiary of a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”), as a result of Goldman Sachs’ status as a bank holding company and its equity interest in the Company. Affiliates of Goldman Sachs beneficially own all of the Company’s B-1 Stock, and may convert such B-1 Stock into non-voting Series D Preferred Stock (the “D Stock”). Although the D Stock is not convertible into common stock of the Company while beneficially owned by Goldman Sachs, the D Stock may be sold or transferred to a third party who may then convert the D Stock into common stock. Goldman Sachs also holds an interest in our senior secured second lien notes issued in connection with the 2008 Recapitalization. As a result of these investments, Goldman Sachs has informed us that the Company may be considered a controlled non-bank subsidiary of Goldman Sachs for U.S. bank regulatory purposes. Companies that are deemed to be subsidiaries of a bank holding company are subject to the BHC Act, and are thus subject to reporting requirements and examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Bank holding companies may engage in the business of banking, or activities that are so closely related to banking, or managing or controlling banks, as to be a proper incident thereto. Bank holding companies that are well-capitalized, well-managed and meet certain other conditions, may become “financial holding companies.” The Federal Reserve Board has approved Goldman Sachs as a financial holding company, and Goldman Sachs may engage in additional activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to financial activities as long as it meets these qualifications, and do not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. The Federal Reserve Board, together with the U.S. Treasury Department, may periodically announce additional permissible activities for financial holding companies. We believe our current businesses are permissible activities for subsidiaries of financial holding companies. We do not expect the limitations on the nonbank activities of financial holding companies to limit our current business activities. It is possible, however, that these restrictions might limit our ability to enter other businesses in which we may wish to engage in the future. In addition, the new Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), the regulations required to be enacted to implement such act, and other laws or regulations that may be adopted in the future, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, whether or not we are a subsidiary of a financial holding company. These new laws and regulations could also affect the ways our counterparties are generally required to do business with their customers, which may affect us, including potentially increased transaction and compliance costs. We continue to discuss alternatives with Goldman Sachs and our respective advisers in an effort to address being deemed a holding company subsidiary under the BHC Act. We believe that the ultimate result will depend upon a number of factors, including the Federal Reserve’s consideration of the requirements for us to be deemed no longer “controlled” by Goldman Sachs for purposes of the BHC Act, market conditions, Goldman Sachs’ investment considerations, and the potential regulatory effects of the BHC Act and the Dodd-Frank Act. These considerations may change from time to time, and we can provide no assurance as to the timing or terms of any potential resolution of these “control” issues under the BHC Act. 8 Table of Contents Recent Federal Legislation in the United States — The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. While the Dodd-Frank Act will likely impose additional regulatory requirements upon us, it is difficult to gauge the impact on our business because many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require the adoption of rules and further studies. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”), which issues and enforces consumer protection initiatives governing financial products and services, including money transfer services, in the United States. We will be required to provide enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers, which may require us to modify our systems. In addition, we may be held liable for the failure of our agents to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act. The enhanced disclosure requirements and the extent of vicarious liability will be determined by rules to be issued by the Bureau when it becomes operational on or about July 21, 2011. Other — We sell our MoneyGram-branded prepaid card in the United States, in addition to loading prepaid cards of other card issuers through our ExpressPayment system. Prepaid card services are generally subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including laws related to consumer protection, licensing, escheat, anti-money laundering and the payment of wages. These laws are evolving, unclear and sometimes inconsistent. The extent to which these laws are applicable to us is uncertain and we are currently unable to determine the impact that any future clarification, changes or interpretation of these laws will have on our services. Clearing and Cash Management Bank Relationships Our business involves the movement of money. On average, we move over $1.0 billion daily to settle our payment instruments and make related settlements with our agents and financial institutions. We generally receive a similar amount on a daily basis from our agents and financial institutions in connection with our payment service obligations. We move money through a network of clearing and cash management banks, and our relationships with these clearing banks and cash management banks are a critical component of our ability to move funds on a global and timely basis. We rely on two banks to clear our retail money orders. We currently have eight official check clearing banks. We believe these relationships provide sufficient capacity for our money order and official check outsourcing services. We maintain contractual relationships with a variety of domestic and international cash management banks for automated clearing house (“ACH”) and wire transfer services for the movement of consumer funds and agent settlements. There are a limited number of international cash management banks with a network large enough to manage cash settlements for our entire agent base. In addition, some large international banks have opted not to bank money service businesses. As a result, we also utilize regional or country-based banking partners in addition to large cash management banks. Intellectual Property The MoneyGram brand is important to our business. We have registered our MoneyGram trademark in the United States and a majority of the other countries where we do business. We maintain a portfolio of other trademarks that are also important to our business, including our ExpressPayment, globe with arrows logo, MoneyGram Rewards, The Power is in Your Hands®, The Power to Change the Way You Send Money®, FormFree and AgentConnect marks. In addition, we maintain a portfolio of MoneyGram branded domain names. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, and trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights in products, services, know-how and information. We believe the intellectual property rights in processing equipment, computer systems, software and business processes held by us and our subsidiaries provide us with a competitive advantage. We believe we take appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property to the extent such intellectual property can be protected. 9 Table of Contents We own U.S. and foreign patents related to our money order and money transfer technology. Our United States patents have in the past given us competitive advantages in the marketplace, including a number of patents for automated money order dispensing systems and printing techniques, many of which have expired. We also have patent applications pending in the U.S. that relate to our money transfer, money order and bill payment technologies and business methods. We anticipate that these applications, if granted, could give us continued competitive advantages in the marketplace. However, our competitors also actively patent their technology and business processes. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 1,570 full-time employees in the United States and 722 full-time employees outside of the United States. In addition, we engage contractors to support various aspects of our business. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant Timothy C. Everett assumed the role of Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in January 2010, following the retirement of Teresa H. Johnson in September 2009. Mubashar Hameed, Chief Information Officer, and Jeffrey R. Woods, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, departed in January 2010. In April 2010, Nigel Lee became Executive Vice President of EMEAAP, following the departure of John Hempsey that same month. Also in April 2010, J. Lucas Wimer became Executive Vice President, Operations and Technology. James E. Shields joined us as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2010. In February 2011, Juan Agualimpia became Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer and Rebecca L. Lobsinger became Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Following is information regarding our executive officers: Pamela H. Patsley, age 54, has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since September 2009. Ms. Patsley was appointed Executive Chairman in January 2009. Ms. Patsley also serves on the boards of directors of Texas Instruments, Inc. and Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Ms. Patsley previously served as Senior Executive Vice President of First Data Corporation, a global payment processing company, from March 2000 to October 2007, and President of First Data International from May 2002 to October 2007. From 1991 to 2000, Ms. Patsley served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Paymentech, Inc., prior to its acquisition by First Data Corporation. Ms. Patsley also served as Chief Financial Officer of First USA, Inc. Juan Agualimpia, age 48, has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since February 2011. Mr. Agualimpia previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from March 2010 to February 2011. From March 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Agualimpia engaged in marketing project consulting. Mr. Agualimpia has 20 years of leadership experience in marketing, brand management, customer relationship management and product development, including as Vice President and General Manager for the Art & Coloring Global Business Unit of Newell Rubbermaid from 2005 to March 2009. Timothy C. Everett, age 48, has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2010. Mr. Everett previously served as Vice President and Secretary of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a multi-national consumer product company, from 2003 to 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Everett served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Kimberly-Clark from 1993 to 2003. From 1990 to 1993, Mr. Everett was an associate with the global law firm, Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP. From 1984 to 1987, Mr. Everett was an auditor with the accounting firm Ernst & Young, LLP. Nigel Lee, age 45, has served as Executive Vice President of EMEAAP since April 2010. Prior to joining MoneyGram, Mr. Lee was president of First Data Asia Pacific, a role he held since 2005. Previously, Mr. Lee served as regional vice president, financial services for EDS in Hong Kong. He has also held a variety of senior executive positions including CIO and Head of Strategy for Australian Home Loans, which is Australia’s largest non-bank retail lender. Mr. Lee began his career as a management consultant with Accenture, formerly Andersen Consulting. 10 Table of Contents Rebecca L. Lobsinger, age 36, has served as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2011. From September 2005 until February 2011, Ms. Lobsinger served as Assistant Controller and from December 2004 through September 2005, Ms. Lobsinger served as the manager of financial standards and reporting for the Company. Through November 2004, Ms. Lobsinger was an auditor with the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Daniel J. O’Malley, age 46, has served as Executive Vice President of the Americas since December 2009. From April 2007 to December 2009, Mr. O’Malley served as Senior Vice President, Global Payment Systems/President Americas. Mr. O’Malley previously served as Vice President, Global Payment Systems/Americas from April 2003 to April 2007, Vice President, Customer Service from June 1999 to April 2003, Director, Operations from 1996 to 1999, Regulatory Project Manager from 1995 to 1996, Manager of the Southeast Processing Center from 1989 to 1995 and Coordinator of the Southeast Processing Center from 1988 to 1989. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. O’Malley held various operations positions at NCNB National Bank and Southeast Bank N.A. from 1983 to 1988. Steven Piano, age 45, has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since August 2009. From January 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Piano served as Global Lead Human Resource Partner with National Grid, a multi-national utility company. From 1996 to January 2008, Mr. Piano held a variety of human resources positions with First Data Corporation, a global electronic payment processing company, serving most recently as Senior Vice President — First Data International. From 1987 to 1996, Mr. Piano held human resources positions with Citibank, Dun & Bradstreet — Nielsen Media Research and Lehman Brothers. James E. Shields, age 49, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2010. From 2009 until July 2010, Mr. Shields engaged in independent financial consulting. During 2008, Mr. Shields served as senior vice president finance and treasurer for Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines. From 2005 to 2008, he served as vice president and treasurer of Celanese Corporation, a $6 billion chemical company with worldwide operations. Prior to that, Mr. Shields was vice president and chief financial officer for consumer markets at Qwest Communications International Inc. J. Lucas Wimer, age 45, has served as Executive Vice President, Operations and Technology since April 2010. From January 2008 to April 2010, Mr. Wimer was a principal at THL Partners, where he was responsible for business transformation programs across the THL portfolio. From September 2003 to December 2007, he led infrastructure development for Capital One. From 1996 to 2003, Mr. Wimer provided management consulting, global project and practice leadership in performance measurement, cost reduction, merger integration and restructuring to the financial services industry for IBM Business Consulting Services, formerly PricewaterhouseCoopers. Available Information We make our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports, available electronically free of charge in the Investor Relations section of our website (www.moneygram.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our principal executive offices are located at 2828 N. Harwood Street, Dallas, Texas 75201, and our telephone number is (214) 999-7552. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS Our substantial debt service and preferred stock obligations, significant debt covenant requirements and our credit rating could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We have substantial debt service and preferred stock obligations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could have an adverse impact on our stockholders, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations, acquisitions, product development or other corporate initiatives; • our debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business and any failure to comply with them may result in an event of default, which could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness increases our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • our debt service obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures; • our ability to pay cash dividends to the holders of our common stock is significantly restricted; • payment of cash dividends to the holders of the preferred stock in the future could reduce the funds available to us for our operations, acquisitions, product development or other corporate initiatives; and • we may be required to pay significant fees to obtain the necessary consents from holders of our debt to amend or reduce our debt and/or preferred stock. Our credit rating is non-investment grade. Together with our level of leverage, this rating adversely affects our ability to obtain additional financing and increases our cost of borrowing. Our proposed 2011 Recapitalization is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. Failure to complete the 2011 Recapitalization could adversely affect our stock price and our future business and financial results. Our proposed 2011 Recapitalization is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the 2011 Recapitalization, including the approval of the Stockholder Approval Matters by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock and B Stock (on an as-converted basis), voting as a single class, and the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock (not including the B Stock or any other stock of the Company held by any Investor), in each case voting on the Stockholder Approval Matters, and the Company’s receipt of sufficient financing to consummate the 2011 Recapitalization. We cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied. We will also incur significant transaction costs whether or not the 2011 Recapitalization is completed. Any failure to complete the 2011 Recapitalization could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and our future business and financial results. 12 Table of Contents Our Series B Stock significantly dilutes the interests of the common stockholders and grants other important rights to the Investors. The Series B Stock issued to the Investors is convertible into shares of common stock or common equivalent stock at the price of $2.50 per common share (subject to anti-dilution rights), giving the Investors an initial equity interest in us of approximately 79 percent (assuming conversion). Dividends payable on the Series B Stock have been accrued since inception. If we continue to accrue dividends in lieu of paying in cash, the ownership interest of the Investors will substantially increase and continue to dilute the interests of the common stockholders. With the accrual of dividends, the Investors had an equity interest of 84 percent (assuming conversion) as of December 31, 2010. The holders of the B Stock vote as a class with the common stock and have a number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock issuable if all outstanding shares of B Stock were converted into common stock plus the number of shares of common stock issuable if all outstanding shares of B-1 Stock were converted into D Stock and subsequently converted into common stock. As a result, holders of the B Stock are able to determine the outcome of matters put to a stockholder vote, including the ability to elect our directors, determine our corporate and management policies, including compensation of our executives, and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might reduce our share price. THL also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of the Investors will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. In view of their significant ownership stake in the Company, THL, as a holder of the B Stock, has appointed four members to our Board of Directors. Goldman Sachs, as a holder of the B-1 Stock, has the right to appoint a director to our Board of Directors. Goldman Sachs has not exercised this right, but has appointed two observers who attend meetings of our Board of Directors. The size of our Board has been set at nine directors, four of which are independent. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, as long as the Investors have a right to designate directors to our Board, Goldman Sachs shall have the right to designate one director who shall have one vote and THL shall have the right to designate two to four directors who shall each have equal votes and who shall have such number of votes equal to the number of directors as is proportionate to the Investors’ common stock ownership, calculated on a fully converted basis assuming the conversion of all shares of Series B Stock into common stock, minus the one vote of the director designated by Goldman Sachs. Therefore, each director designated by THL will have multiple votes and each other director will have one vote. Sustained financial market illiquidity, or illiquidity at our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face certain risks in the event of a sustained deterioration of financial market liquidity, as well as in the event of sustained deterioration in the liquidity, or failure, of our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions. In particular: • We may be unable to access funds in our investment portfolio on a timely basis to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers and make related settlements to agents. Any resulting need to access other sources of liquidity or short-term borrowing would increase our costs. Any delay or inability to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers or make related settlements with our agents could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Clearing and cash management banks upon which we rely to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could fail or experience sustained deterioration in liquidity. This could lead to our inability to clear our payment service instruments and move funds on a global and timely basis as required to settle our obligations and collect partner receivables. 13 Table of Contents • Our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source of funding for corporate transactions and liquidity needs. If any of the banks participating in our credit facility were unable or unwilling to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to engage in corporate transactions such as acquisitions could be adversely affected. • We may be unable to borrow from financial institutions or institutional investors on favorable terms, which could adversely impact our ability to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions. If financial liquidity deteriorates, there can be no assurance we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued weakness in economic conditions, in both the United States and global markets, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our money transfer business relies in part on the overall strength of global economic conditions as well as international migration patterns. Consumer money transfer transactions and migration patterns are affected by, among other things, employment opportunities and overall economic conditions. Our customers tend to have employment in industries such as construction, manufacturing and retail that tend to be cyclical and more significantly impacted by weak economic conditions than other industries. This may result in reduced job opportunities for our customers in the United States or other countries that are important to our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, increases in employment opportunities may lag other elements of any economic recovery. Our agents or billers may have reduced sales or business as a result of weak economic conditions. As a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Our billers may have fewer customers making payments to them, particularly billers in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn such as the automobile, mortgage and retail industries. If general market softness in the United States or other national economies important to the Company’s business were to continue for an extended period of time or deteriorate further, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our consumer transactions decline or migration patterns shift due to deteriorating economic conditions, we may be unable to timely and effectively reduce our operating costs or take other actions in response, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A material slow down or complete disruption in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The money transfer business relies in part on migration patterns, as individuals move from their native countries to countries with greater economic opportunities or a more stable political environment. A significant portion of money transfer transactions are initiated by immigrants or refugees sending money back to their native countries. Changes in immigration laws that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that make it more difficult for individuals to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our money transfer remittance volume or growth rate. Sustained weakness in global economic conditions could reduce economic opportunities for migrant workers and result in reduced or disrupted international migration patterns. Reduced or disrupted international migration patterns, particularly in the United States or Europe, are likely to reduce money transfer transaction volumes and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we lose key agents or are unable to maintain our Global Funds Transfer agent or biller networks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Revenue from our money transfer and urgent bill payment services is derived from transactions conducted through our retail agent and biller networks. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. There are risks associated with the check cashing industry that could cause this agent base to decline. We may not be able to retain all of our current retail agents or billers for other reasons, as the competition for retail agents and billers is intense. If agents or billers decide to leave our agent network, or if we are unable to add new agents or billers to our network, our revenue would decline. 14 Table of Contents Larger agents and billers in our Global Funds Transfer segment are increasingly demanding financial concessions and more information technology customization. The development, equipment and capital necessary to meet these demands could require substantial expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will have the available capital after paying dividends to the Investors and servicing our debt, or that we will be allowed to make such expenditures under the terms of our debt agreements. If we are unable to meet these demands, we could lose customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our transaction volume is generated by a limited number of key agents. During 2010 and 2009, our 10 largest agents accounted for 51 percent and 48 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue and 55 percent and 53 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. In 2010 and 2009, our largest agent, Walmart, accounted for 30 percent and 29 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue and 33 percent and 32 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. The term of our agreement with Walmart runs through January 2013. If any of our key agents do not renew their contracts with us, or if such agents reduce the number of their locations, or cease doing business, we might not be able to replace the volume of business conducted through these agents, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Litigation or investigations involving MoneyGram or our agents, which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been, and in the future may be, subject to allegations and complaints that individuals or entities have used our money transfer services for fraud-induced money transfers which may result in fines, settlements and litigation expenses. We also are the subject from time to time of litigation related to our business. The outcome of such allegations, complaints, claims and litigation cannot always be predicted, although we vigorously defend against them. Regulatory and judicial proceedings and potential adverse developments in connection with ongoing litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may also be adverse publicity associated with lawsuits and investigations that could decrease agent and customer acceptance of our services. Additionally, our business has been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other general litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies in these lawsuits, actions or investigations may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of these actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend or settle future lawsuits or investigations may be significant. We have been served with subpoenas to produce documents and testify before the Grand Jury in the Middle District of Pennsylvania with regard to our U.S. and Canadian agents, as well as certain transactions involving such agents, fraud complaint data, and our consumer anti-fraud program. In addition, we have received civil investigative demands from a working group of nine state attorney generals who have initiated an investigation into whether the Company has taken adequate steps to prevent consumer fraud. The Company continues to cooperate fully with these investigations, but is unable to predict the outcome or the possible loss, or range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of these matters. We face credit risks from our retail agents and official check financial institution customers. The vast majority of our Global Funds Transfer segment is conducted through independent agents that provide our products and services to consumers at their business locations. Our agents receive the proceeds from the sale of our payment instruments and money transfers and we must then collect these funds from the agents. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit money order or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer. Moreover, we have made, and may make in the future, secured or unsecured loans to retail agents under limited circumstances or allow agents to retain our funds for a period of time before remitting them to us. As of December 31, 2010, we had credit exposure to our agents of approximately $594.0 million in the aggregate spread across over 15,000 agents, of which three owed us in excess of $15.0 million. 15 Table of Contents Our official checks outsourcing business is conducted through financial institutions. Our official check financial institution customers issue official checks and money orders and remit to us the face amounts of those instruments the day after they are issued. MoneyGram is liable for payment on all of those instruments except cashier’s checks. As of December 31, 2010, we had credit exposure to our official check financial institution customers of approximately $375.7 million in the aggregate spread across 1,400 financial institutions, of which one owed us in excess of $15.0 million. We monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and official check financial institution customers on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that the models and approaches we use to assess and monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and official check financial institution customers will be sufficiently predictive, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to timely mitigate an increased credit risk. In the event of an agent bankruptcy, we would generally be in the position of creditor, possibly with limited security or financial guarantees of performance, and we would therefore be at risk of a reduced recovery. We are not insured against credit losses, except in circumstances of agent theft or fraud. Significant credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face fraud risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as paper instrument counterfeiting, fraud and identity theft. As we make more of our services available over the Internet and other unmanned media, we subject ourselves to new types of consumer fraud risk because requirements relating to customer authentication are more complex with Internet services. Certain former retail agents have also engaged in fraud against consumers or us, and existing agents could engage in fraud against consumers or us. We use a variety of tools to protect against fraud; however, these tools may not always be successful. Allegations of fraud may result in fines, settlements and litigation expenses. The industry has come under increasing scrutiny from federal, state and local regulators in connection with the potential for consumer fraud. Negative economic conditions may result in increased agent or consumer fraud. If consumer fraud levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention and reputational and financial damage. This, in turn, could lead to government enforcement actions and investigations, reduce the use and acceptance of our services or increase our compliance costs and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability of the Company or its agents to maintain adequate banking relationships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on domestic and international banks for international cash management, ACH and wire transfer services to pay money transfers and settle with our agents. We also rely on domestic banks to provide clearing, processing and settlement functions for our paper-based instruments, including official checks and money orders. The Company’s relationships with these banks are a critical component of our ability to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses. An inability on our part to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships sufficient to enable us to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to establish and maintain adequate banking relationships. We rely on a primary international banking relationship for international cash management, ACH and wire transfer services. Should we not be successful in maintaining a sufficient relationship with one of the limited number of large international banks that provide these services, we would be required to establish a global network of banks to provide us with these services. This could alter the pattern of settlement with our agents and result in our agent receivables and agent payables being outstanding for longer periods than the current remittance schedule, potentially adversely impacting our cash flow. Maintaining a global network of banks, if necessary, may also increase our overall costs for banking services. 16 Table of Contents We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses in the United States under the Bank Secrecy Act. The federal banking regulators are increasingly taking the stance that Money Service Businesses, as a class, are high risk. As a result, several financial institutions, which look to the federal regulators for guidance, have terminated their banking relationships with some of our agents. If our agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to continue to offer our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to operate our official check and money order businesses profitably if we are not successful in retaining those partners that we wish to retain. We have reduced the commission rate we pay to our official check financial institution customers, and have implemented, and in some cases increased, per-item and other fees for our official check and money order services. Due to the historically low interest rate environment, our official check financial institution customers have been receiving low or no commission payments from the issuance of payment service instruments. Our official check financial institution customers have a right to terminate their agreements with us if they do not accept these pricing changes. As a result of the pricing changes, historically low interest rate environment and contractual rights, there can be no assurance that we will retain those official check financial institution customers and money order agents that we wish to retain. If we are not successful in retaining those customers and agents that we wish to retain, and we are unable to proportionally reduce our fixed costs associated with the official check and money order businesses, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain sufficient capital could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient capital, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions. Further, we may not be able to meet new capital requirements introduced or required by our regulators. Given the leveraged nature of the Company and the significant restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, there can be no assurance that we will have access to sufficient capital. Failure to have such access could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to attract and retain key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a large extent upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. The loss of services of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and future development. A failure to attract and retain key personnel could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to successfully develop and timely introduce new and enhanced products and services or if we make substantial investments in an unsuccessful new product, service or infrastructure change, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced methods of providing money transfer, money order, official check, bill payment and related services that keep pace with competitive introductions, technological changes and the demands and preferences of our agents, financial institution customers and consumers. If alternative payment mechanisms become widely substituted for our current products and services, and we do not develop and offer similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. We may make future investments or enter into strategic alliances to develop new technologies and services or to implement infrastructure change to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. Such investments and strategic alliances, however, are inherently risky and we cannot guarantee that such investments or strategic alliances will be successful. If such investments and strategic alliances are not successful, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect our brand and the intellectual property rights related to our existing and any new or enhanced products and services, or if we are unable to avoid infringing on the rights of others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The MoneyGram® brand is important to our business. We utilize trademark registrations in various countries and other tools to protect our brand. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand and the value of our brand was to decrease as a result. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We also investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties to prevent our infringement of those rights. We may be subject to claims of third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights or have misappropriated other proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to defend any such claims or to protect and police our own rights. Some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection or to successfully defend against claims of intellectual property infringement could harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operation. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we face a variety of competitors across our businesses, in particular our largest competitor, The Western Union Company. In addition, new competitors or alliances among established companies may emerge. Further, some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. With respect to our money transfer, urgent bill payment and money order businesses, our primary competition comes from our largest competitor. We cannot anticipate every effect that actions taken by our competitors will have on our business, or the money transfer and bill payment industry in general. Money transfer, money order and bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a concentrated industry, with a small number of large competitors and a large number of small, niche competitors. We also compete with banks and niche person-to-person money transfer service providers. The electronic bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a highly fragmented consumer-to-business payment industry. Competitors in the electronic payments area include financial institutions, third parties that host financial institution and bill payment services, third parties that offer payment services directly to consumers and billers offering their own bill payment services. 18 Table of Contents Our official check business competes primarily with financial institutions that have developed internal processing capabilities or services similar to ours and do not outsource official check services. Financial institutions could also offer competing official check outsourcing services to our existing and prospective official check customers. There can be no assurance that growth in consumer money transfer transactions, bill payment transactions and other payment products will continue. In addition, consolidation among payment services companies has occurred and could continue. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing products, while also growing newly developed and acquired products, we will be unable to compete effectively in the changing marketplace, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. MoneyGram and our agents are subject to a number of risks relating to U.S. and international regulatory requirements, which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties or changes in our or their business operations that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations that vary from country to country. The money transfer business is subject to a variety of regulations aimed at the prevention of money laundering and terrorism. We are subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the requirements of the OFAC, which prohibit us from transmitting money to specified countries or on behalf of prohibited individuals. Additionally, we are subject to the anti-money laundering laws in many countries where we operate, particularly in the European Union. We are also subject to financial services regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, escheat laws, as well as privacy and data protection laws. Many of the laws to which we are subject are evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. In connection with the regulatory requirements to which we are subject, there has been increased public attention regarding prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen anti-money laundering, data protection, information security and consumer privacy. While we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these particular areas are evolving, inconsistent across various jurisdictions, and often unclear, which increases our operating compliance costs and our legal risks. Subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. In particular, we are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) in the United States and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. We are also subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions in many jurisdictions, including the Bank Secrecy Act in the United States, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. Because of the scope of our global operations, we experience a higher risk associated with the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws than many companies. We are also subject to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the U.S. Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or “FinCEN.” Any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards may increase our costs of operations and may disrupt our business as we develop new business and compliance models. For example, the European Union’s Payment Services Directive (“PSD”) imposes potential liability on us for the conduct of our agents and the commission of third party fraud utilizing our services. We modified our business operations in the European Union in 2009 and 2010 in light of PSD and will likely experience additional costs of operating in the European Union to address PSD compliance. In the event we fail to comply with the PSD, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Additionally, the United States and other countries periodically consider initiatives designed to lower costs of international remittances which, if implemented, may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards, or interpretations of legal or regulatory requirements may reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. Any regulatory action that adversely affects check cashers could also cause this portion of our agent base to decline. If onerous regulatory requirements were imposed on our agents, the requirements could lead to a loss of agents, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of retail business. Any intentional or negligent violation by us of the laws and regulations set forth above could lead to significant fines or penalties and could limit our ability to conduct business in some jurisdictions. Regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions are showing a greater inclination than they have in the past to hold money services businesses like ours to higher standards of agent training and monitoring for possible violations of laws and regulations by agents. Our systems, employees and processes may not be sufficient to detect and prevent an intentional or negligent violation of the laws and regulations set forth above by our agents, which could also lead to us being subject to significant fines or penalties. In addition to those direct costs, a failure by us or our agents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and brands and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. Failure by us or our agents to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of applicable regulatory authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. While we have instituted policies and procedures to protect against violations of law, it is possible that our money transfer service or other products could be used by wrong-doers in contravention of U.S. law or regulations. This could result in increased compliance costs, regulatory inquiries, suspension or revocation of required licenses or registrations, seizure or forfeiture of assets and the imposition of civil and criminal fees and penalties. In addition to monetary fines or penalties that we could incur, we could be subject to reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material breach of security of our systems could adversely affect our business. We obtain, transmit and store confidential customer information in connection with certain of our services. Any significant security breaches in our computer networks, databases or facilities could harm our business and reputation, cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities and cause a loss of customers. We rely on a variety of technologies to provide security for our systems. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect our systems. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our data. If users gain improper access to our or our contractor’s systems or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential customer information. A security breach could expose us to monetary liability, lead to reputational harm and make our customers less confident in our services. 20 Table of Contents Because our business is particularly dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers, disruptions to these systems and data centers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money and the management of data necessary to do so. The success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of transactions and data. We rely on the ability of our employees and our internal systems and processes to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or physical break-in), security breach, improper operation, improper action by our employees, agents, customer financial institutions or third party vendors or any other event impacting our systems or processes or our vendors’ systems or processes, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful. We may also experience problems other than system failures, including software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. Certain of our agent contracts, including our contract with Walmart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our system, and give the agent a right to collect damages and in extreme situations a right of termination for system downtime exceeding agreed upon service levels. If we experience significant system interruptions or system failures, our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or damages that we may incur. If we are unable to effectively operate and scale our technology to match our business growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to continue to provide our services to a growing number of agents and consumers, as well as to enhance our existing services and offer new services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to effectively manage the technology associated with our business, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and loss of agents or consumers. Any failure of our systems in scalability, reliability and functionality could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of retail locations and acquisition or start-up of businesses create risks and may adversely affect our operating results. We operate Company-owned retail locations for the sale of our products and services. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations that are triggered by our ownership of retail locations and our employment of individuals who staff our retail locations. There are also certain risks inherent in operating any retail location, including theft, personal injury and property damage and long-term lease obligations. We may, from time to time, acquire or start up businesses both inside and outside of the United States. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire or open, including their facilities, personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, we could experience increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The diversion of capital and management’s attention from our core business that results from acquiring or opening new businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents There are a number of risks associated with our international sales and operations that could adversely affect our business. We provide money transfer services between and among approximately 190 countries and territories and continue to expand in various international markets. Our ability to grow in international markets and our future results could be harmed by a number of factors, including: • changes in political and economic conditions and potential instability in certain regions, including in particular the recent civil unrest, terrorism and political turmoil in North Africa, the Middle East and other regions; • restrictions on money transfers to, from and between certain countries; • money control and repatriation issues; • changes in regulatory requirements or in foreign policy, including the adoption of domestic or foreign laws, regulations and interpretations detrimental to our business; • possible increased costs and additional regulatory burdens imposed on our business; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations; • possible fraud or theft losses, and lack of compliance by international representatives in foreign legal jurisdictions where collection and legal enforcement may be difficult or costly; • reduced protection for our intellectual property rights; • unfavorable tax rules or trade barriers; • inability to secure, train or monitor international agents; and • failure to successfully manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, in particular with respect to the euro. Changes in tax laws and unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take could adversely affect our tax expense. We file tax returns and take positions with respect to federal, state, local and international taxation, including positions that relate to our 2007 and 2008 net security losses, and our tax returns and tax positions are subject to review and audit by taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome of a tax review or audit could result in higher tax expense, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We establish reserves for material, known tax exposures. While we believe our reserves are adequate to cover material, known tax exposures, there can be no assurance that an actual taxation event would not exceed our reserves. As a deemed subsidiary of a holding company regulated under the BHC Act, we are subject to supervision, regulation and regular examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve supervises and regulates all bank holding companies and financial holding companies, along with their subsidiaries. The new Dodd-Frank Act requires regular examinations of subsidiaries of bank and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries in the same manner as if they were depository institutions. As a subsidiary of a holding company regulated under the BHC Act, we are required to provide information and reports for use by the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases the regulation and supervision of large bank and financial holding companies, such as Goldman Sachs, and their subsidiaries, which may adversely affect us as a deemed subsidiary of Goldman Sachs. Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the regulations required by that Act, and other laws or regulations that may be adopted in the future, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition, whether or not we are a subsidiary of a bank holding company or a financial holding company. 22 Table of Contents The recent Dodd-Frank Act increases the regulation of financial services companies generally, including non-bank financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act increases the regulation and oversight of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act addresses, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, thrift charters, changes among the bank regulatory agencies, and the ability to conduct business with holding company affiliates. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require studies and regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires enforcement by various governmental agencies, including the new Bureau. The new legislation and implementing regulations may increase our costs of compliance, and may require changes in the way we conduct business. We cannot predict the effects of this broad legislation or the regulations to be adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. We will be subject to various provisions of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 adopted as part of the Dodd-Frank Act, which will result in a new regulator with new and expanded compliance requirements, which is likely to increase our costs. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Bureau, which will affect our business, even if we are not deemed a subsidiary of a bank or financial holding company. Money transmitters such as the Company will be required to provide additional consumer information and disclosures. The Bureau is charged with studying and drafting standards to address existing prices and fees at locations where our services are offered and adopt error resolution standards. The Bureau and the regulations it will adopt are likely to necessitate operational changes and additional costs, but we cannot predict its effects upon us or our business at this time. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to certify and report on our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In order to achieve effective internal controls we may need to enhance our accounting systems or processes, which could increase our cost of doing business. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have significant overhang of salable convertible preferred stock relative to the public float of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock was first established in June 2004. The float in that market now consists of approximately 83,400,000 shares out of a total of 83,620,522 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2010. The Series B Stock issued to the Investors is convertible into shares of common stock or common equivalent stock at the price of $2.50 per common share, subject to anti-dilution rights. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement entered into between the Company and the Investors at the closing of the 2008 Recapitalization, on December 14, 2010, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that permits the offer and sale by the Investors of all of the Series B Stock that they hold, as well as any common stock or D Stock into which the B-1 Stock may be converted. The registration statement also permits the Company to offer and sell up to $500 million of its common stock, preferred stock, debt securities or any combination of these, from time to time, subject to market conditions and the Company’s capital needs. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our charter documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could inhibit your ability to receive a premium on your investment from a possible sale of the Company. Our charter documents contain provisions that may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire the Company. These provisions and specific provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a merger or change in control of the Company. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company even if stockholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or if a significant number of our stockholders believed such a proposed transaction to be in their best interests. As a result, stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. The NYSE requires us to maintain an average closing price of our common stock of $1.00 per share or higher over 30 consecutive trading days as well as to maintain average market capitalization and stockholders’ equity of at least $75 million. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company; and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS None. 