Risk Factors” for additional discussion regarding potential impacts of failure to comply. We continually monitor and enhance our global compliance programs to comply with the most recent legal and regulatory changes. During 2011, we increased our compliance personnel headcount and made investments in our compliance-related technology and infrastructure. Anti-Money Laundering Compliance. Our money transfer services are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations of the United States, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act, as well as similar state laws and regulations and the anti-money laundering laws and regulations in many of the countries in which we operate, particularly in the European Union. Countries in which we operate may require one or more of the following: • reporting of large cash transactions and suspicious activity; • screening of transactions against the government’s watch-lists, including but not limited to, the watch-list maintained by OFAC; • prohibition of transactions in, to or from certain countries, governments, individuals and entities; • limitations on amounts that may be transferred by a consumer or from a jurisdiction at any one time or over specified periods of time, which require the aggregation of information over multiple transactions; 8 Table of Contents • consumer information gathering and reporting requirements; • consumer disclosure requirements, including language requirements and foreign currency restrictions; • notification requirements as to the identity of contracting agents, governmental approval of contracting agents or requirements and limitations on contract terms with our agents; • registration or licensing of the Company or our agents with a state or federal agency in the United States or with the central bank or other proper authority in a foreign country; and • minimum capital or capital adequacy requirements. Anti-money laundering regulations are constantly evolving and vary from country to country. We continuously monitor our compliance with anti-money laundering regulations and implement policies and procedures to make our business practices flexible, so we can comply with the most current legal requirements. We offer our money transfer services primarily through third-party agents with whom we contract and do not directly control. As a money services business, we and our agents are required to establish anti-money laundering compliance programs that include: (i) internal policies and controls; (ii) designation of a compliance officer; (iii) ongoing employee training and (iv) an independent review function. We have developed an anti-money laundering training manual available in multiple languages and a program to assist with the education of our agents on the various rules and regulations. We also offer in-person and online training as part of our agent compliance training program and engage in various agent oversight activities. Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing — Almost all states in the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands and Guam require us to be licensed to conduct business within their jurisdictions. Our primary overseas operating subsidiary, MoneyGram International Ltd, became a licensed payment institution under the Payment Services Regulations adopted in the United Kingdom pursuant to the European Union Payment Services Directive. Licensing requirements generally include minimum net worth, provision of surety bonds, compliance with operational procedures, agent oversight and the maintenance of reserves or “permissible investments” in an amount equivalent to outstanding payment obligations, as defined by our various regulators. The types of securities that are considered “permissible investments” vary across jurisdictions, but generally include cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other highly rated debt instruments. Most states and our other regulators require us to file reports on a quarterly or more frequent basis to verify our compliance with their requirements. Many states and other regulators also subject us to periodic examinations and require us and our agents to comply with anti-money laundering and other laws and regulations. Escheatment Regulations — Unclaimed property laws of every state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands require that we track certain information on all of our payment instruments and money transfers and, if they are unclaimed at the end of an applicable statutory abandonment period, that we remit the proceeds of the unclaimed property to the appropriate jurisdiction. Statutory abandonment periods for payment instruments and money transfers range from three to seven years. Certain foreign jurisdictions also may have unclaimed property laws, though we do not have material amounts subject to any such law. Privacy Regulations — In the ordinary course of our business, we collect certain types of data that subject us to certain privacy laws in the United States and abroad. In the United States, we are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, or the GLB Act, which requires that financial institutions have in place policies regarding the collection, processing, storage and disclosure of information considered nonpublic personal information. We are also subject to privacy laws of various states. In addition, we are subject to laws adopted pursuant to the European Union’s Data Protection Directive, or the Data Protection Directive. We abide by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Safe Harbor framework principles to assist in compliance with the Data Protection Directive. In some cases, the privacy laws of a European Union member state may be more restrictive than what is required under the Data Protection Directive and may impose additional duties with which we must comply. We also have confidentiality/information security standards and procedures in place for our business activities and with our third-party vendors and service providers. Privacy and information security laws, both domestically and internationally, evolve regularly, and conflicting laws in the various jurisdictions where we do business pose challenges. 9 Table of Contents Banking Regulations — We completed an underwritten secondary offering of 10,237,524 shares of our common stock held by Goldman Sachs and others in November and December 2011. Prior to that time, we were deemed a “controlled subsidiary” of Goldman Sachs & Co., a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHC Act, as a result of Goldman Sachs’ ownership of shares of our non-voting D Stock. Although the D Stock is not convertible into common stock of the Company while beneficially owned by Goldman Sachs, the D Stock may be sold or transferred to a third party which may then convert the D Stock into common stock. In conjunction with the secondary offering of our common stock, we also made a partial redemption of our Second Lien Notes held by Goldman Sachs in the aggregate principal amount of $175 million. As result of these transactions and discussions with the Federal Reserve, Goldman Sachs has informed us that the Company is no longer deemed a controlled subsidiary of Goldman Sachs. Therefore, we believe we are no longer subject to the regulations that apply to controlled subsidiaries of bank holding companies, or to reporting requirements, examination or supervision by the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act. Recent Federal Legislation in the United States — The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. While the Dodd-Frank Act will likely impose additional regulatory requirements upon us, it is difficult to gauge the impact on our business because many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require the adoption of rules and further studies. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or the Bureau, which issues and enforces consumer protection initiatives governing financial products and services, including money transfer services, in the United States. We will be required to provide enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers, which will require us to modify our systems and current consumer disclosures. Enhanced disclosure requirements, error resolution procedures, the extent of vicarious liability for acts of our agents, refund requirements and other matter impacting how we offer international remittances in the United States were set forth in the Final Remittance Rule that was issued by the Bureau on January 20, 2012 and published in the Federal Register on February 7, 2012. The effective date of the Remittance Rule is February 7, 2013. Regulation of Prepaid Cards — We sell our MoneyGram-branded prepaid card in the United States, in addition to loading prepaid cards of other card issuers through our ExpressPayment system. Prepaid card services are generally subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including laws related to consumer protection, licensing, escheat, anti-money laundering and the payment of wages. These laws are evolving, unclear and sometimes inconsistent. The extent to which these laws are applicable to us is uncertain and we are currently unable to determine the impact that any future clarification, changes or interpretation of these laws will have on our services. Clearing and Cash Management Bank Relationships Our business involves the movement of money. We move money through a network of clearing and cash management banks, and our relationships with these clearing banks and cash management banks are a critical component of our ability to move funds on a global and timely basis. We rely on two banks to clear our retail money orders and we currently have eight official check clearing banks. We believe these relationships provide sufficient capacity for our money order and official check outsourcing services. We maintain contractual relationships with a variety of domestic and international cash management banks for automated clearing house, or ACH, and wire transfer services for the movement of consumer funds and agent settlements. There are a limited number of international cash management banks with a network large enough to manage cash settlements for our entire agent base. In addition, some large international banks have opted not to bank money service businesses. As a result, we also utilize regional or country-based banking partners in addition to large cash management banks. Intellectual Property The MoneyGram brand is important to our business. We have registered our MoneyGram trademark in the United States and a majority of the other countries where we do business. We maintain a portfolio of other trademarks that are also important to our business, including our globe with arrows logo, ExpressPayment, MoneyGram Rewards, FormFree, and PrimeLink marks. In addition, we maintain a portfolio of MoneyGram branded domain names. 10 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, and trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights in products, services, know-how and information. We believe the intellectual property rights in processing equipment, computer systems, software and business processes held by us and our subsidiaries provide us with a competitive advantage. We believe we take appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property to the extent such intellectual property can be protected. We own U.S. and foreign patents related to our money order and money transfer technology. Our U.S. patents have in the past given us competitive advantages in the marketplace. We also have patent applications pending in the United States that relate to our money transfer, money order and bill payment technologies and business methods. We anticipate that these applications, if granted, could give us continued competitive advantages in the marketplace. However, our competitors also actively patent their technology and business processes. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 1,399 full-time employees in the United States and 737 full-time employees outside of the United States. In addition, we engage contractors to support various aspects of our business. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant Pamela H. Patsley, age 55, has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since September 2009. Ms. Patsley was appointed Executive Chairman in January 2009. Ms. Patsley also serves on the boards of directors of Texas Instruments, Inc. and Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Ms. Patsley previously served as Senior Executive Vice President of First Data Corporation, a global payment processing company, from March 2000 to October 2007, and President of First Data International from May 2002 to October 2007. From 1991 to 2000, Ms. Patsley served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Paymentech, Inc., prior to its acquisition by First Data Corporation. Ms. Patsley also served as Chief Financial Officer of First USA, Inc. Juan Agualimpia, age 49, has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since February 2011. Mr. Agualimpia previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from March 2010 to February 2011. From March 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Agualimpia engaged in marketing project consulting. Mr. Agualimpia has 20 years of leadership experience in marketing, brand management, customer relationship management and product development, including as Vice President and General Manager for the Art & Coloring Global Business Unit of Newell Rubbermaid from 2005 to March 2009. David B. Brown, age 49, has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since January 2012. Mr. Brown previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Dresser, Inc., a privately held energy industry infrastructure manufacturer, from 2010 to 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Brown served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Dresser, Inc. from 2007 to 2010. From 2003 to 2007, Mr. Brown held various financial positions at The Brink’s Company. From 1996 to 2003, Mr. Brown held financial positions at LSG Sky Chefs. In 1995, Mr. Brown was a consultant for Halliburton, and from 1985 to 1995 he held the position of Audit Senior Manager at Price Waterhouse L.L.P. Timothy C. Everett, age 49, has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2010. Mr. Everett previously served as Vice President and Secretary of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a multi-national consumer product company, from 2003 to 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Everett served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Kimberly-Clark from 1993 to 2003. From 1990 to 1993, Mr. Everett was an associate with the global law firm, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, LLP. From 1984 to 1987, Mr. Everett was an auditor with the accounting firm Ernst & Young, LLP. W. Alexander Holmes, age 37, has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations since June of 2009. Mr. Holmes previously served as Senior Vice President, Global Sourcing and Strategic Initiatives at First Data Corporation, a global payment processing company, from 2007 to 2009. From 2004 to 2007, Mr. Holmes served in various roles of increasing responsibility at First Data Corporation. Prior to that, Mr. Holmes managed the Benelux region at the Western Union Company, a global money transfer company, from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Holmes joined First Data in 2000 and served in various finance roles until 11 Table of Contents early 2002. From 1997 to 2000, Mr. Holmes was at the University of Colorado’s system administration office where he managed a number of ERP implementation projects. Daniel J. O’Malley, age 47, has served as Executive Vice President, Americas and Emerging Markets since June 2011. Mr. O’Malley previously served as Executive Vice President, Americas since December 2009. From April 2007 to December 2009, Mr. O’Malley served as Senior Vice President, Global Payment Systems/President Americas. Mr. O’Malley previously served as Vice President, Global Payment Systems/Americas from April 2003 to April 2007, Vice President, Customer Service from June 1999 to April 2003, Director, Operations from 1996 to 1999, Regulatory Project Manager from 1995 to 1996, Manager of the Southeast Processing Center from 1989 to 1995 and Coordinator of the Southeast Processing Center from 1988 to 1989. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. O’Malley held various operations positions at NCNB National Bank and Southeast Bank N.A. from 1983 to 1988. Steven Piano, age 46, has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources since August 2009. From January 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Piano served as Global Lead Human Resource Partner with National Grid, a multi-national utility company. From 1996 to January 2008, Mr. Piano held a variety of human resources positions with First Data Corporation, a global electronic payment processing company, serving most recently as Senior Vice President — First Data International. From 1987 to 1996, Mr. Piano held human resources positions with Citibank, Dun & Bradstreet — Nielsen Media Research and Lehman Brothers. James E. Shields, age 50, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2010. From 2009 until July 2010, Mr. Shields engaged in independent financial consulting. During 2008, Mr. Shields served as senior vice president finance and treasurer for Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines. From 2005 to 2008, he served as vice president and treasurer of Celanese Corporation, a $6 billion chemical company with worldwide operations. Prior to that, Mr. Shields was vice president and chief financial officer for consumer markets at Qwest Communications International Inc. J. Lucas Wimer, age 46, has served as Executive Vice President, Operations and Technology since April 2010. From January 2008 to April 2010, Mr. Wimer was a principal at THL Partners, where he was responsible for business transformation programs across the THL portfolio. From September 2003 to December 2007, he led infrastructure development for Capital One. From 1996 to 2003, Mr. Wimer provided management consulting, global project and practice leadership in performance measurement, cost reduction, merger integration and restructuring to the financial services industry for IBM Business Consulting Services, formerly PricewaterhouseCoopers. Available Information We make our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports, available electronically free of charge in the Investor Relations section of our website (www.moneygram.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our principal executive offices are located at 2828 N. Harwood Street, 15th Floor, Dallas, Texas 75201, and our telephone number is (214) 999-7552. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business and Industry Continued weakness in economic conditions, in both the United States and global markets, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our money transfer business relies in part on the overall strength of global economic conditions as well as international migration patterns. Consumer money transfer transactions and international migration patterns are 12 Table of Contents affected by, among other things, employment opportunities and overall economic conditions. Our customers tend to be employed in industries such as construction, manufacturing and retail that tend to be cyclical and more significantly impacted by weak economic conditions than other industries. This may result in reduced job opportunities for our customers in the United States or other countries that are important to our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, increases in employment opportunities may lag other elements of any economic recovery. Our agents or billers may have reduced sales or business as a result of weak economic conditions. As a result, our agents could reduce their number of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Our billers may have fewer customers making payments to them, particularly billers in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn such as the automobile, mortgage and retail industries. If general market conditions in the United States or other national economies important to our business were to deteriorate further, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our consumer transactions decline or international migration patterns shift due to deteriorating economic conditions, we may be unable to timely and effectively reduce our operating costs or take other actions in response, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If consumers’ confidence in our business or in traditional money transfer providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is built on consumers’ confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer services. Erosion in consumers’ confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes, which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial position and results of operations. A number of factors could adversely affect consumers’ confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. These factors include: • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations that have the effect of making it more difficult for consumers to transfer money using traditional money transfer providers; • actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers’ money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds; • federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer data to a greater extent than is currently required; • any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses; and • any breach of our security policies or legal requirements resulting in a compromise of consumer data. Many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. Consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider the migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. If governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, or if consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for positions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. A material slow down or complete disruption in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our money transfer business relies in part on international migration patterns, as individuals move from their native countries to countries with greater economic opportunities or a more stable political environment. A significant portion of money transfer transactions are initiated by immigrants or refugees sending money back to their native countries. Changes in immigration laws that discourage international migration and political or other 13 Table of Contents events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that make it more difficult for individuals to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our money transfer remittance volume or growth rate. Sustained weakness in global economic conditions could reduce economic opportunities for migrant workers and result in reduced or disrupted international migration patterns. Reduced or disrupted international migration patterns, particularly in the United States or Europe, are likely to reduce money transfer transaction volumes and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we lose key agents or are unable to maintain our Global Funds Transfer agent or biller networks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Revenue from our money transfer and urgent bill payment services is derived from transactions conducted through our retail agent and biller networks. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. There are risks associated with the check cashing industry that could cause this agent base to decline. We may not be able to retain all of our current retail agents or billers for other reasons, as the competition for retail agents and billers is intense. If agents or billers decide to leave our agent network, or if we are unable to add new agents or billers to our network, our revenue would decline. Larger agents and billers in our Global Funds Transfer segment are increasingly demanding financial concessions and more information technology customization. The development, equipment and capital necessary to meet these demands could require substantial expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will have the available capital after servicing our debt, or that we will be allowed to make such expenditures under the terms of our debt agreements. If we are unable to meet these demands, we could lose customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our transaction volume is generated by a limited number of key agents. During 2011 and 2010, our 10 largest agents accounted for 45 percent and 50 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue and 48 percent and 54 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. In 2011 and 2010, our largest agent, Wal-Mart, accounted for 29 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of our total company fee and investment revenue and 31 percent and 32 percent, respectively, of the fee and investment revenue of our Global Funds Transfer segment. The term of our agreement with Wal-Mart runs through January 2013. If Wal-Mart or any of our other key agents do not renew their contracts with us, or if such agents reduce the number of their locations, or cease doing business, we might not be able to replace the volume of business conducted through these agents, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, if Wal-Mart or any of our other key agents renew their contracts with us, but on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. MoneyGram and our agents are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material settlements, fines or penalties or changes in our or our agents’ business operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations that vary from country to country. The money transfer business is subject to a variety of regulations aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorism. We are subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the requirements of OFAC, which prohibit us from transmitting money to specified countries or on behalf of prohibited individuals. Additionally, we are subject to anti-money laundering laws in many countries where we operate, particularly in the European Union. We are also subject to financial services regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, escheat laws and privacy and data protection laws. Many of these laws are constantly evolving, unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. There has been increased public attention and heightened legislation and regulations regarding money laundering, terrorist financing, corporate use and disclosure of personal information, data protection, information security and consumer privacy. The legal, political and business environments in these particular areas are 14 Table of Contents evolving, inconsistent across various jurisdictions and often unclear, which increases our operating compliance costs and our legal risks. Subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. In particular, we are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in the United States and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. We are also subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions in many jurisdictions, including the Bank Secrecy Act in the United States, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. Because of the scope of our global operations, we experience a higher risk associated with the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws than many other companies. We are also subject to regulatory oversight and enforcement by FinCEN. Any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to several investigations by the U.S. federal government and several U.S. state governments. The Dodd-Frank Act increases the regulation and oversight of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act addresses, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, thrift charters, changes among the bank regulatory agencies, and the ability to conduct business with holding company affiliates. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require studies and regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires enforcement by various governmental agencies, including the new Bureau. Money transmitters such as the Company will be required to provide additional consumer information and disclosures, adopt error resolution standards meeting the Bureau’s regulatory requirements, and adjust refund procedures for international transactions originating in the United States. We may be liable for failure of our agents to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act. The Bureau and the regulations it has adopted and will adopt will necessitate operational changes and additional costs, but we cannot predict its effects upon us or our business at this time. The new legislation and implementing regulations associated with the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our costs of compliance, and may require changes in the way we conduct business. Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards may increase our costs of operations and may disrupt our business as we develop new business and compliance models. For example, the European Union’s Payment Services Directive, or PSD, imposes potential liability on us for the conduct of our agents and the commission of third party fraud utilizing our services. We modified our business operations in the European Union in 2009 and 2010 in light of the PSD and will likely experience additional costs associated with addressing PSD compliance. If we fail to comply with the PSD, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Additionally, the United States and other countries periodically consider initiatives designed to lower costs of international remittances which, if implemented, may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards, or interpretations of legal or regulatory requirements may reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services. Many of our high volume agents are in the check cashing industry. Any regulatory action that negatively impacts check cashers could also cause this portion of our agent base to decline. If onerous regulatory requirements were imposed on our agents, the requirements could lead to a loss of agents, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of retail business. Any violation by us of the laws and regulations set forth above could lead to significant fines or penalties and could limit our ability to conduct business in some jurisdictions. Regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions are demonstrating a greater inclination than they have in the past to hold money services businesses like ours to higher standards and to monitor for possible violations of laws and regulations by agents. Our systems, employees and processes may not be sufficient to detect and prevent violations of the laws and regulations set forth above by our agents, which could also lead to us being subject to significant fines or penalties. In addition to these fines and penalties, a failure by us or our agents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and result in diminished revenue and profit and increase our operating costs. 15 Table of Contents Failure by us or our agents to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of applicable regulatory authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or investigations involving us or our agents could result in material settlements, fines or penalties and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been, and in the future may be, subject to allegations and complaints that individuals or entities have used our money transfer services for fraud-induced money transfers, as well as certain money laundering activities, which may result in fines, penalties, judgments, settlements and litigation expenses. We also are the subject from time to time of litigation related to our business. The outcome of such allegations, complaints, claims and litigation cannot be predicted. Regulatory and judicial proceedings and potential adverse developments in connection with ongoing litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may also be adverse publicity associated with lawsuits and investigations that could decrease agent and customer acceptance of our services. Additionally, our business has been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other general litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations is difficult to assess or quantify but may include substantial fines and expenses, as well as the revocation of required licenses or registrations or the loss of approved status, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies in these lawsuits, actions or investigations may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of these actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend or settle future lawsuits or investigations may be significant. We are subject to several investigations by the U.S. federal government and several U.S. state governments. We have been served with subpoenas to produce documents and testify before a grand jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. The subpoenas sought information related to, inter alia, our U.S. and Canadian agents, as well as certain transactions involving such agents, fraud complaint data, and our consumer anti-fraud program during the period from 2004 to 2009. We have provided information requested pursuant to the subpoenas, and continue to provide additional information relating to the investigation. In addition, the Company has been provided with subpoenas for the testimony of certain current and former employees in connection with the investigation. The Company has also been notified of a request for interviews of one current executive officer and one former chief executive officer of the Company. The U.S. Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or FinCEN, also requested information, which we subsequently provided, concerning our reporting of fraudulent transactions during this period. In November 2010, we met with representatives from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, or the MDPA USAO, and representatives of FinCEN to discuss the investigation. In July 2011, we had further discussions with the MDPA USAO and representatives of the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section of the U.S. Department of Justice, or the US DOJ. We have been informed that we are being investigated by the federal grand jury in connection with these matters for the period 2004 to early 2009 as well as our anti-money laundering program during that period. In January 2012, meetings were held between our representatives, the MDPA USAO and the Criminal Division of the US DOJ to discuss the investigation. We continue to engage in discussions and cooperate with such government representatives regarding the ongoing investigation. During the course of these discussions, we were advised that consideration is being given to a range of possible outcomes, including the seeking of criminal penalties against us. However, no conclusions can be drawn at this time as to the outcome of the investigation and we are unable to predict the probable loss, or range of loss, if any, associated with this matter. We have also received Civil Investigative Demands from a working group of nine state attorneys general who have initiated an investigation into whether we have taken adequate steps to prevent consumer fraud during the 16 Table of Contents period from 2007 to 2011. The Civil Investigative Demands seek information and documents relating to our procedures to prevent fraudulent transfers and consumer complaint information. We continue to cooperate fully with the states’ attorneys in this matter. We have submitted the information and documents requested by the states. No claims have been made against us at this time. If any charges or claims are brought with respect to these investigations, we could face substantial fines, damage awards, attorneys’ and other legal expenses and fees, or regulatory consequences, such as the revocation of required licenses or registrations or the loss of approved status, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, if any charges or claims are brought, and regardless of whether or not successfully prosecuted, we could face negative publicity that could adversely affect our important customer relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Adverse developments related to these investigations, including any expansion of their scope, could negatively impact our Company and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, that are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile or, in a limited number of cases, are subject to certain OFAC restrictions. It is possible that our money transfer service or other products could be used by wrong-doers in contravention of U.S. law or regulations. Such circumstances could result in increased compliance costs, regulatory inquiries, suspension or revocation of required licenses or registrations, seizure or forfeiture of assets and the imposition of civil and criminal fees and penalties. In addition to monetary fines or penalties that we could incur, we could be subject to reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial debt service obligations, significant debt covenant requirements and our credit rating could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We have substantial debt service obligations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could have an adverse impact on our stockholders, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations, acquisitions, product development and other corporate initiatives; • our debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business, and any failure to comply with them may result in an event of default, which could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness increases our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • our debt service obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who have less leverage relative to their overall capital structures; • our ability to pay cash dividends to the holders of our common stock is significantly restricted; and • we may be required to pay significant fees to obtain the necessary consents from holders of our debt to amend or reduce our debt. 17 Table of Contents Our credit rating is non-investment grade. Together with our level of leverage, this rating adversely affects our ability to obtain additional financing and increases our cost of borrowing. Sustained financial market illiquidity, or illiquidity at our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face certain risks in the event of a sustained deterioration of financial market liquidity, as well as in the event of sustained deterioration in the liquidity, or failure, of our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions. In particular: • We may be unable to access funds in our investment portfolio, deposit accounts and clearing accounts on a timely basis to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers and make related settlements to agents. Any resulting need to access other sources of liquidity or short-term borrowing would increase our costs. Any delay or inability to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers or make related settlements with our agents could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Clearing and cash management banks that conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could fail or experience sustained deterioration in liquidity. This could lead to our inability to clear our payment service instruments and move funds on a global and timely basis as required to settle our obligations and collect partner receivables. • Our revolving credit facility is one source of funding for our corporate transactions and liquidity needs. If any of the banks participating in our credit facility were unable or unwilling to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to engage in corporate transactions such as acquisitions could be adversely affected. • We may be unable to borrow from financial institutions or institutional investors on favorable terms, which could adversely impact our ability to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions. • We maintain cash at commercial banks in the United States in amounts in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limit of $250,000. In the event of a failure at a commercial bank where we maintain our deposits, we may incur a loss to the extent such loss exceeds the insurance limitation. If financial liquidity deteriorates, there can be no assurance we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain sufficient capital could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient capital, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions. Further, we may not be able to meet new capital requirements introduced or required by our regulators. Further, although we are no longer considered a bank holding company for purposes of U.S. law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital under the Basel Committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. In addition, given our leveraged nature and the significant restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, there can be no assurance that we will have access to sufficient capital. Failure to meet capital requirements or to have access to sufficient capital could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face credit risks from our retail agents and financial institution customers. The vast majority of our Global Funds Transfer segment is conducted through independent agents that provide our products and services to consumers at their business locations. Our agents receive the proceeds from the sale of our payment instruments and money transfers, and we must then collect these funds from the agents. If an 18 Table of Contents agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit money order or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer. Moreover, we have made, and may make in the future, secured or unsecured loans to retail agents under limited circumstances or allow agents to retain our funds for a period of time before remitting them to us. As of December 31, 2011, we had credit exposure to our agents of approximately $352.0 million in the aggregate spread across 12,000 agents, of which four owed us in excess of $15.0 million. Our official checks outsourcing business is conducted through financial institutions. Our financial institution customers issue official checks and money orders and remit to us the face amounts of those instruments the day after they are issued. We are liable for payment on all of those instruments except cashier’s checks. As of December 31, 2011, we had credit exposure to our official check financial institution customers of approximately $350.8 million in the aggregate spread across 1,300 financial institutions, of which one owed us in excess of $15.0 million. We monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and financial institution customers on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that the models and approaches we use to assess and monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and financial institution customers will be sufficiently predictive, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to timely mitigate an increased credit risk. In the event of an agent bankruptcy, we would generally be in the position of creditor, possibly with limited security or financial guarantees of performance, and we would therefore be at risk of a reduced recovery. We are not insured against credit losses, except in circumstances of agent theft or fraud. Significant credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability by us or our agents to maintain adequate banking relationships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on domestic and international banks for international cash management, ACH and wire transfer services to pay money transfers and settle with our agents. We also rely on domestic banks to provide clearing, processing and settlement functions for our paper-based instruments, including official checks and money orders. Our relationships with these banks are a critical component of our ability to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses. An inability on our part to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships sufficient to enable us to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain adequate banking relationships. If we cannot maintain a sufficient relationship with a limited number of large international banks that provide these services, we would be required to establish a global network of banks to provide us with these services. Utilizing a global network of banks could alter the pattern of settlement with our agents and result in our agent receivables and agent payables being outstanding for longer periods than the current remittance schedule, potentially adversely impacting our cash flow. Maintaining a global network of banks may also increase our overall costs for banking services. We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses in the United States under the Bank Secrecy Act. U.S. regulators are increasingly taking the position that Money Service Businesses, as a class, are high risk businesses. In addition, the creation of anti-money laundering laws has created concern and awareness among banks of the negative implications of aiding and abetting money laundering activity. As a result, certain of our agents have been denied access to retail banking services in certain markets regardless of the mitigating factors and controls in place to prevent anti-money laundering law violations. If our agents are unable to obtain sufficient banking relationships, they may not be able to offer our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may be unable to operate our official check and money order businesses profitably if we are not successful in retaining those partners that we wish to retain. We have reduced the commission rate we pay to our official check financial institution customers, and have implemented, and in some cases increased, per-item and other fees for our official check and money order services. Due to the current low interest rate environment, our official check financial institution customers have been receiving low or no commission payments from the issuance of payment service instruments. Our official check financial institution customers have a right to terminate their agreements with us if they do not accept these pricing changes. As a result of the pricing changes, a low interest rate environment and contractual rights, there can be no assurance that we will retain official check financial institution customers and money order agents that we wish to retain. If we are not successful in retaining customers and agents that we wish to retain, and we are unable to proportionally reduce our fixed costs associated with the official check and money order businesses, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face fraud risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as paper instrument counterfeiting, fraud and identity theft. As we make more of our services available over the Internet and other unmanned media, we subject ourselves to new types of consumer fraud risk because requirements relating to customer authentication are more complex with Internet services. Certain former retail agents have also engaged in fraud against consumers or us, and existing agents could engage in fraud against consumers or us. We use a variety of tools to protect against fraud; however, these tools may not always be successful. Allegations of fraud may result in fines, settlements and litigation expenses. The industry is under increasing scrutiny from federal, state and local regulators in connection with the potential for consumer fraud. Negative economic conditions may result in increased agent or consumer fraud. If consumer fraud levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention and reputational and financial damage. This, in turn, could lead to government enforcement actions and investigations, reduce the use and acceptance of our services or increase our compliance costs and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we face a variety of competitors across our businesses, in particular our largest competitor, The Western Union Company, or Western Union. In addition, new competitors or alliances among established companies may emerge. Further, some of our competitors have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. With respect to our money transfer, urgent bill payment and money order businesses, our primary competitor is Western Union. We cannot anticipate every effect that actions taken by our competitors will have on our business, or the money transfer and bill payment industry in general. Money transfer, money order and bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a concentrated industry, with a small number of large competitors and a large number of small, niche competitors. We also compete with banks and niche person-to-person money transfer service providers. The electronic bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a highly fragmented consumer-to-business payment industry. Competitors in the electronic payments area include financial institutions, third parties that host financial institution and bill payment services, third parties that offer payment services directly to consumers and billers offering their own bill payment services. Our official check business competes primarily with financial institutions that have developed internal processing capabilities or services similar to ours and do not outsource official check services. Financial institutions could also offer competing official check outsourcing services to our existing and prospective official check customers. There can be no assurance that growth in consumer money transfer transactions, bill payment transactions and other payment products will continue. In addition, consolidation among payment service companies has occurred 20 Table of Contents and could continue to occur in the future. If we are unable to continue to grow our existing products, while also growing newly developed and acquired products, we will be unable to compete effectively in the changing marketplace, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to successfully develop and timely introduce new and enhanced products and services or if we make substantial investments in an unsuccessful new product, service or infrastructure change, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced methods of providing money transfer, money order, official check, bill payment and related services that keep pace with competitive introductions, technological changes and the demands and preferences of our agents, financial institution customers and consumers. If alternative payment mechanisms become widely substituted for our current products and services, and we do not develop and offer similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. We may make future investments or enter into strategic alliances to develop new technologies and services or to implement infrastructure changes to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. Such investments and strategic alliances, however, are inherently risky and we cannot guarantee that such investments or strategic alliances will be successful. If such investments and strategic alliances are not successful, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are a number of risks associated with our international sales and operations that could adversely affect our business. We provide money transfer services between and among approximately 190 countries and territories and continue to expand in various international markets. Our ability to grow in international markets and our future results could be harmed by a number of factors, including: • changes in political and economic conditions and potential instability in certain regions, including in particular the recent civil unrest, terrorism and political turmoil in North Africa, the Middle East and other regions; • restrictions on money transfers to, from and between certain countries; • money control and repatriation issues; • changes in regulatory requirements or in foreign policy, including the adoption of domestic or foreign laws, regulations and interpretations detrimental to our business; • possible increased costs and additional regulatory burdens imposed on our business; • the implementation of U.S. sanctions, resulting in bank closures in certain countries and the ultimate freezing of our assets; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations; • possible fraud or theft losses, and lack of compliance by international representatives in foreign legal jurisdictions where collection and legal enforcement may be difficult or costly; • reduced protection of our intellectual property rights; • unfavorable tax rules or trade barriers; • inability to secure, train or monitor international agents; and • failure to successfully manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, in particular with respect to the euro. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect our brand and the intellectual property rights related to our existing and any new or enhanced products and services, or if we infringe on the rights of others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The MoneyGram(R) brand is important to our business. We utilize trademark registrations in various countries and other tools to protect our brand. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand and the value of our brand was to decrease as a result. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We also investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties to prevent our infringement of those rights. We may be subject to third party claims alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights or have misappropriated other proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to defend such claims or to protect and police our own rights. Some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection or to successfully defend against claims of intellectual property infringement could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. Failure to attract and retain key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our success depends to a large extent upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. The loss of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and future development. A failure to attract and retain key personnel could also have a material adverse impact on our business. A breach of security of our systems could adversely affect our business. We obtain, transmit and store confidential customer, employer and agent information in connection with certain of our services. These activities are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions. The requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. Any security breaches in our computer networks, databases or facilities could harm our business and reputation, cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities, cause a loss of customers and subject us to lawsuits. We rely on a variety of technologies to provide security for our systems. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect our systems. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our data. If users gain improper access to our or our contractor’s systems or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential customer information. A security breach could expose us to monetary liability, lead to reputational harm and make our customers less confident in our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our business is particularly dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers, disruptions to these systems and data centers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money and the management of data necessary to do so. The success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of transactions and data. We rely on the ability of our employees and our internal systems and processes to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or physical break-in), security breach, improper operation, improper action by our employees, agents, customer financial institutions or third party vendors or any other event impacting our systems or processes or 22 Table of Contents our vendors’ systems or processes, we could suffer financial loss, loss of customers, regulatory sanctions, lawsuits and damage to our reputation. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful. We may also experience problems other than system failures, including software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. In addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees who support our systems or perform any of our major functions could adversely affect our business. Certain of our agent contracts, including our contract with Wal-Mart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our system, and give the agent a right to collect damages and in extreme situations a right of termination for system downtime exceeding agreed upon service levels. If we experience significant system interruptions or system failures, our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or damages that we may incur. If we are unable to effectively operate and adapt our technology to match our business growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to continue to provide our services to a growing number of agents and consumers, as well as to enhance our existing services and offer new services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to effectively manage the technology associated with our business, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and loss of agents or consumers. Any failure of our systems in scalability, reliability and functionality could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of retail locations and acquisition or start-up of businesses create risks and may adversely affect our operating results. We operate Company-owned retail locations for the sale of our products and services. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations that are triggered by our ownership of retail locations and our employment of individuals who staff our retail locations. There are also certain risks inherent in operating any retail location, including theft, personal injury and property damage and long-term lease obligations. We may, from time to time, acquire or start up businesses both inside and outside of the United States. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire or open, including their facilities, personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions or start-up businesses, we could experience increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The diversion of capital and management’s attention from our core business that results from acquiring or opening new businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concerns regarding the European debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro, the potential re-introduction of individual currencies within the Eurozone, or the potential dissolution of the euro entirely, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financing. As a result of the debt crisis with respect to countries in Europe, in particular most recently in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to countries using the euro as their currency, or the Eurozone, that are in financial difficulty and seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent financial stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, which will be activated by mutual agreement, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries after June 2013. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro dissolve 23 Table of Contents entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. In addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally. Changes in tax laws and unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take could adversely affect our tax expense and liquidity. Our future tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. From time to time, the United States and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. If changes to applicable tax laws are enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We file tax returns and take positions with respect to federal, state, local and international taxation, including positions that relate to our historical net security losses, and our tax returns and tax positions are subject to review and audit by taxing authorities. We expect to receive a Notice of Deficiency within the next 12 months disallowing approximately $908.5 million of cumulative deductions taken relating to net security losses. Through December 31, 2011, we recognized a cumulative federal benefit of approximately $136.1 million relating to these deductions. If our petition regarding the Notice of Deficiency is denied, the Company would be required to make cash payments of $105.4 million based on benefits taken through December 31, 2011. An unfavorable outcome in this audit or other tax reviews or audits could result in higher tax expense, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We establish reserves for material known tax exposures; however, there can be no assurance that an actual taxation event would not exceed our reserves. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to certify and report on our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In order to achieve effective internal controls we may need to enhance our accounting systems or processes, which could increase our cost of doing business. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock THL owns a substantial percentage of our common stock, and its interests may differ from the interests of our other common stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, THL held approximately 64.1 percent of our common stock. As a result, THL is able to determine the outcome of matters put to a stockholder vote, including the ability to elect our directors, determine our corporate and management policies, including compensation of our executives, and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. THL also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of THL will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. THL’s concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might reduce our share price. In view of their significant ownership stake in the Company, THL has appointed four members to our Board of Directors. The size of our Board has been set at nine directors, four of which are independent. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, as long as the Investors have a right to designate directors to our Board, THL shall have the right to designate two to four directors who shall each have equal votes and who shall have such number 24 Table of Contents of votes equal to the number of directors as is proportionate to the Investors’ common stock ownership, calculated on a fully-converted basis, as if all of the shares of D Stock were converted to common shares. Therefore, each director designated by THL will have multiple votes and each other director will have one vote. We have significant overhang of salable common stock and D Stock held by the Investors relative to the public float of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock was first established in June 2004. The public float in that market now consists of approximately 62.3 million shares issued and 57.8 million shares outstanding as of December 31, 2011. In accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement entered into between us and the Investors at the closing of the 2008 Recapitalization, we have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 that permits the offer and sale by the Investors of all of the common stock or D Stock currently held by the Investors. In 2011, the Investors sold 10.2 million shares of common stock pursuant to this registration statement, which leaves the Investors with 50.7 million shares of common stock that can still be sold pursuant to the registration statement. The registration statement also permits us to offer and sell up to $500 million of our common stock, preferred stock, debt securities or any combination of these securities, from time to time, subject to market conditions and our capital needs. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our common stock. Our charter documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could inhibit your ability to receive a premium on your investment from a possible sale of the Company. Our charter documents contain provisions that may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire the Company. These provisions and specific provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain business combinations, including a merger or change in control of the Company. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company even if stockholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or if a significant number of our stockholders believed such a proposed transaction to be in their best interests. As a result, stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. Our board of directors has the power to issue series of preferred stock and to designate the rights and preferences of those series, which could adversely affect the voting power, dividend, liquidation and other rights of holders of our common stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the power to issue series of preferred stock and to designate the rights and preferences of those series. Therefore, our board of directors may designate a new series of preferred stock with the rights, preferences and privileges that the board of directors deems appropriate, including special dividend, liquidation and voting rights. The creation and designation of a new series of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power, dividend, liquidation and other rights of holders of our common stock and, possibly, any other class or series of stock that is then in existence. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include the perceived prospects or actual operating results of our business; changes in estimates of our operating results by analysts, investors or our management; our actual operating results relative to such estimates or expectations; actions or announcements by us or our competitors; litigation and judicial decisions; legislative or regulatory actions; and changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 