Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves various risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the various other factors identified in or incorporated by reference into any other documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission before making an investment decision involving our securities. The risks discussed herein can adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline and could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. 14 Holding loans for sale or securitization requires a significant amount of cash or warehouse facility capacity which if not available, could cause our business and financial performance to be significantly harmed. By holding loans pending sale or securitization, we may also require cash in the event our warehouse facilities elect to not fund the entire principal balance of our loans, or if our loans are financed past the permitted term under our warehouse lines, or decline in value, we may need cash to reduce our borrowings under the warehouse facilities to the permitted level. We also need cash to fund or satisfy, as the case may be, our working capital, financial covenants in our warehouse facilities and other needs. We finance the majority of the loans we hold for sale or securitization by borrowing from our warehouse facilities and pledging the loans made as collateral. If the value of the loans we pledge as collateral declines, we may need cash to offset any decline in value. Our primary sources of cash consist of: · borrowings, including under our warehouse facilities; · our net interest income; · the proceeds from the sale of our loans; and · net proceeds from the sale of our securities. It is possible that our warehouse lenders could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to us, independent of our performance or the performance of our loans. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, our lenders may be required to increase significantly the cost of the lines of credit that they provide to us. As of December 31, 2006, we financed substantially all of our loan originations through warehouse facilities. Each of these facilities may be terminated by the lender upon an event of default, subject in some cases to cure periods. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate balance outstanding under these facilities was approximately $173.0 million. As of April 1, 2007, we have exited the mortgage lending business and accordingly have terminated two of our three warehouse facilities. If we are not able to renew this remaining warehouse facility or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on our covenants or are otherwise unable to access funds under this facility, we may not be able to continue to finance mortgage loans held for sale, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we determined that we were not in compliance with certain of these financial covenants (primarily profitability and total net worth covenants). We received waivers from all lenders concerning such non-compliance. If we fail to comply with financial covenants in any of our warehouse facility in the future and are not able to cure the non-compliance or obtain the necessary waivers, this facility may be terminated by the lender. We generally fund less than 100% of a loan balance with warehouse debt, requiring us to invest cash to the extent the originated balance is not funded by the warehouse facility. This funding shortfall ranges from 0% to 2% on loans financed under warehouse facilities. The longer loans remain funded by a warehouse facility the more our warehouse lenders require us to advance against the loans. In addition, our warehouse lenders will require us to have on deposit a cash margin against funded loans based upon the loan’s estimated market value. The market for any senior or subordinate securities we issue through securitizations could become temporarily illiquid or trade at steep discounts, thereby reducing the cash flow we receive over time from our loans subject to the securities. In addition, our operating cash flow could be reduced if we sell more loans at a discount than at a premium or at lower premiums. Cash flows from principal repayments could be reduced should prepayments slow or should credit quality trends deteriorate (in the latter case since, for certain of our assets, credit tests must be met for us to receive cash flows). In the event that our liquidity needs exceed our access to liquidity, we may need to sell assets at an inopportune time, thus reducing our earnings. Adverse cash flow could threaten our continued ability to satisfy the income and asset tests necessary to maintain our status as a REIT or our solvency. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Company Our common stock could be delisted by the New York Stock Exchange if we do not comply with its continued listing standards. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Under the NYSE’s current listing standards, we are required to have market capitalization or shareholders' equity of more than $25 million in order to maintain compliance with continued listing standards. As of March 28, 2007, our market capitalization was approximately $42.7 million. We cannot assure you that we can continue to comply with the listing procedures and that the NYSE will maintain our listing in the future. In the event that our common stock is delisted by the NYSE, or if it becomes apparent to us that we will be unable to meet the NYSE’s continued listing criteria in the foreseeable future, we will seek to have our stock listed or quoted on another national securities exchange or quotation system. However, we cannot assure you that, if our common stock is listed or quoted on such other exchange or system, the market for our common stock will be as liquid as it has been on the NYSE. As a result, if we are delisted by the NYSE or transfer our listing to another exchange or quotation system, the market price for our common stock may become more volatile than it has been historically. 15 Delisting of our common stock would likely cause a reduction in the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. Delisting also could reduce the ability of holders of our common stock to purchase or sell our securities as quickly and inexpensively as they would have been able to do had our common stock remained listed. This lack of liquidity also could make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. We may experience a decline in the market value of our assets The market value of the interest-bearing assets that we have acquired and intend to continue to acquire, most notably mortgage-backed securities and originated or purchased residential mortgage loans and any related hedging instruments, may move inversely with changes in interest rates. We anticipate that increases in interest rates will tend to decrease our net income. A decline in the market value of our investments may limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring additional collateral or initiating margin calls under our repurchase agreements. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our investments under adverse market conditions in order to maintain liquidity. If such sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of such investments, we will incur losses. A default under our repurchase agreements could also result in the liquidation of the underlying investments used as collateral and result in a loss equal to the difference between the value of the collateral and the amount owed under our repurchase agreements. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are limited in our ability to leverage our assets, the returns on our portfolio may be harmed. A key element of our strategy is our use of leverage to increase the size of our portfolio in an attempt to enhance our returns. As of December 31, 2006, our leverage ratio, defined as total financing facilities less subordinated debentures outstanding divided by total stockholders' equity plus subordinated debentures at December 31, 2006 was 10 to 1. Our repurchase agreements are not currently committed facilities, meaning that the counterparties to these agreements may at any time choose to restrict or eliminate our future access to the facilities and we have no other committed credit facilities through which we may leverage our equity. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We currently leverage our equity, which will exacerbate any losses we incur on our current and future investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We currently leverage our equity through borrowings, generally through the use of repurchase agreements, bank credit facilities, securitizations, including the issuance of collateralized debt securities, which are obligations issued in multiple classes secured by an underlying portfolio of securities, and other borrowings. The amount of leverage we incur varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and our lenders’ estimates of the value of our portfolio’s cash flow. The return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets we hold in our portfolio. Further, the leverage on our equity may exacerbate any losses we incur. Our debt service payments will reduce the net income available for distributions to our stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. We currently leverage through repurchase agreements. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to margin calls which we will have to satisfy. While we have experienced normal course of business margin calls primarily related to the changing interest rate environment, significant decreases in asset valuation could lead to increased margin calls. We may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls. We have a target overall leverage amount of 8 to 12 times our equity, but there is no established limitation, other than may be required by our financing arrangements, on our leverage ratio or on the aggregate amount of our borrowings. 16 Interest rate fluctuations may cause losses. We believe our primary interest rate exposure relates to our mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and variable-rate debt, as well as the interest rate swaps and caps that we utilize for risk management purposes. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense we incur in financing these assets. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect our ability to acquire mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our assets would not change as rapidly. This would adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between income received from our assets, net of credit losses, and our financing costs. We anticipate that in most cases, for any period during which our assets are not match-funded, the income from such assets will adjust more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. We anticipate that increases in interest rates will tend to decrease our net income. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income would result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have a limited operating history with respect to securitizing mortgage loans or managing a portfolio of mortgage securities and we may not be able to complete loan securitizations in the future on favorable terms, or at all, the result of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and limit our ability to make cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Historically, NYMC’s business has consisted of the origination and sale of mortgage loans of all types, with a particular focus on prime adjustable- and fixed-rate, first lien, residential purchase mortgage loans. Our strategy includes building a leveraged portfolio of residential mortgage loans comprised of prime adjustable-rate mortgage loans, including hybrid adjustable-rate loans that have an initial fixed-rate period, and other qualifying loans or securities. We have a limited history with respect to securitizing mortgage loans or managing a portfolio of mortgage securities, having completed just four securitizations and having managed an investment portfolio of mortgages and mortgage securities commencing only after the completion of our initial public offering in June 2004. Our ability to complete securitizations in the future on favorable terms will depend upon a number of factors, including the experience and ability of our management team, conditions in the securities markets generally, conditions in the mortgage-backed securities market specifically, the performance of our portfolio of securitized loans and our ability to obtain leverage. In addition, poor performance of any pool of loans we do securitize could increase the expense of any subsequent securitization we bring to market. Accordingly, a decline in the securitization market or a change in the market’s demand for our shares of common stock could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. If we are unable to securitize efficiently the adjustable-rate and hybrid mortgage loans that we acquire, then our revenues for the duration of our investment in those loans would decline, which would lower our earnings for the time the loans remain in our portfolio. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete loan securitizations in the future on favorable terms, or at all. Excessive supply of or reduced demand for mortgage-backed securities in the market for these securities may cause the market to require a higher yield on our mortgage-backed securities and thereby cause a decline in the value of our portfolio. The mortgage-backed securities we own, or will own, are also subject to spread risk. The majority of these securities are, or will be, adjustable-rate securities valued based on a market credit spread to U.S. Treasury security yields. In other words, their value is dependent on the yield demanded on such securities by the market based on their credit relative to U.S. Treasury securities. Excessive supply of such securities combined with reduced demand will generally cause the market to require a higher yield on such securities, resulting in the use of a higher or wider spread over the benchmark rate (usually the applicable U.S. Treasury security yield) to value such securities. Under such conditions, the value of our securities portfolio will tend to decline. Conversely, if the spread used to value such securities were to decrease or tighten, the value of our securities portfolio will tend to increase. Such changes in the market value of our portfolio could adversely affect our net equity, net income or cash flow directly through their impact on unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities, and therefore our ability to realize gains on such securities, or indirectly through their impact on our ability to borrow and access capital, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders. 17 In addition, upward shifts in the U.S. Treasury yield curve, which represents the market’s expectations of future interest rates, would generally cause investors to demand a higher yield on our mortgage-backed securities. Such events would affect our portfolio, financial position and results of operations in a manner similar to those described above. Loan prepayment rates may increase, adversely affecting yields on our planned investments. The value of the assets we have acquired and intend to continue to acquire may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining mortgage loan interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets with lower yields than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of any mortgage assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed-income securities from declining interest rates. Conversely, in periods of rising interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally decrease, in which case we would not have the prepayment proceeds available to invest in assets with higher yields. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios, we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. We use derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps and caps, to hedge our liabilities and this has certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedging transaction will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders and that such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. Our board of directors has adopted a general policy with respect to the use of derivatives, and which generally allows us to use derivatives when we deem appropriate for risk management purposes, but does not set forth specific guidelines. To the extent consistent with maintaining our status as a REIT, we may use derivatives, including interest rate swaps and caps, options, term repurchase contracts, forward contracts and futures contracts, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. However, a hedge may not be effective in eliminating the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives in a hedging transaction. The mortgage loans we typically invest in and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities we typically invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Residential mortgage loans are secured by residential properties and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by residential property typically is dependent primarily upon the income or assets of the borrower, but also may be affected by property location and condition, competition and demand for comparable properties, changes in zoning laws, environmental contamination, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, declines in regional or local real estate values, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates, changes in governmental rules and regulations and acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral that we can realize upon foreclosure and sale and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process. The occurrence of an event of default or foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and could limit the amount we have available for payment of our debt obligations and distribution to our stockholders. In addition, residential mortgage-backed securities evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage-backed securities we typically invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Our directors have approved broad investment guidelines for us and do not approve each investment we make. Our board of directors has given us substantial discretion to invest in accordance with our broad investment guidelines. Our board of directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our portfolio. However, our board of directors does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our directors rely primarily on information provided to them by our executive officers. Furthermore, transactions entered into by us may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our directors. We have substantial discretion within our broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets we may decide are proper investments for us. 18 We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our mortgage-backed securities. If any of the mortgage loans that we originated and sold, or that we pledge or pledged to secure mortgage-backed securities that we issue in our securitizations, do not comply with the representations and warranties that we make about the characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the properties securing the loans, we may be required to repurchase those loans in the case of the loans that we have sold, or replace them with substitute loans or cash in the case of securitized loans. If this occurs, we may have to bear any associated losses directly. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold, we may be required to indemnify the purchasers of such loans for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty made by us. Repurchased loans typically require an allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited, which could limit the amount by which we can leverage our equity. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could significantly harm our cash flow and results of operations and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 19 Risks Related to Our Company, Structure and Change in Control Provisions Our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control. We have entered into agreements with the members of our senior management team, Messrs. Akre, Mumma and Howe that provides them with severance benefits if their employment ends under specified circumstances following a change in control. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of us and thereby prevent or discourage a change in control that might involve a premium price for your shares or otherwise be in your best interest. The stock ownership limit imposed by our charter may inhibit market activity in our common stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code apply to determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our capital stock for purposes of this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). To help ensure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provides that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no person other than Mr. Schnall may own more than 9.4% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. Our charter provides that Mr. Schnall may own up to 12.0% of our outstanding common stock. Our board of directors may grant an exemption from that ownership limit in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. This ownership limit could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price for our common stock or would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control which could have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control. These provisions include the following, among others: · our charter provides that, subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, a director may be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors; · our bylaws provide that only our board of directors shall have the authority to amend our bylaws; · under our charter, our board of directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time, in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences; · and rights of any such series, all without the approval of our stockholders; · the Maryland Business Combination Act; and · the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Although our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from application of the Maryland Business Combination Act and our bylaws provide that we are not subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, our board of directors may elect to make the “business combination” statute and “control share” statute applicable to us at any time and may do so without stockholder approval. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. We believe that there are a number of exemptions under the Investment Company Act that are applicable to us. To maintain the exemption, the assets that we acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and the market price for our securities. 20 Tax Risks Related to Our Business and Structure Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and ability to make distributions. We have operated and intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income, and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, if we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Additionally, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary REIT income for that year, (ii) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year, and (iii) 100% of our undistributed REIT taxable income from prior years. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Certain of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between REIT taxable income and available cash. Such assets could include mortgage-backed securities we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable income in advance of the receipt of cash. As a result, our taxable income may exceed our cash available for distribution and the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: · sell assets in adverse market conditions, · borrow on unfavorable terms or · distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments generally through borrowings from financial institutions, along with securitization financings. If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable to domestic shareholders that are individuals, trust and estates is 15% (through 2008). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rate applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock trades in a limited market which could hinder your ability to sell our common stock. Our equity market capitalization places us at the low end of market capitalization among all public REITs. Our common stock experiences limited trading volume, and many investors may not be interested in owning our common stock because of the inability to acquire or sell a substantial block of our common stock at one time. This illiquidity could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. A substantial sale, or series of sales, of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 21 The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may become highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include, among other things: actual or anticipated changes in our current or future financial performance; changes in market interest rates and general market and economic conditions. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 