ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS This section describes risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future prospects. The risk factors set forth in this section could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully review the factors discussed below and the cautionary statements referred to under " Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Investments The subordinate mortgage notes, mezzanine loans and participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans we invest in may be subject to risks relating to the structure and terms of the transactions, as well as subordination in bankruptcy, and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate notes, which may result in losses to us. We invest in subordinate mortgage notes, mezzanine loans and participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans. These investments are subordinate to first mortgages on commercial property and are secured by subordinate rights to the commercial property or by equity interests in the commercial entity. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, after senior obligations are met, there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our subordinate notes. Because each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate mortgage notes can vary in their structural characteristics and lender rights. Our rights to control the default or bankruptcy process following a default will vary from transaction to transaction. The subordinate real estate debt that we intend to invest in may not give us the right to demand foreclosure as a subordinate real estate debtholder. Furthermore, the presence of intercreditor agreements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. We invest in subordinate mortgage-backed securities which are subject to a greater risk of loss than senior securities. We may hold the most junior class of mortgage-backed securities which are subject to the first risk of loss if any losses are realized on the underlying mortgage loans. We invest in a variety of subordinate mortgage-backed securities and sometimes hold a "first loss" subordinate holder position. The ability of a borrower to make payments on the loan underlying these securities is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. Expenses of enforcing the underlying mortgage loans (including litigation expenses), expenses of protecting the properties securing the mortgage loans and the lien on the mortgaged properties, and, if such expenses are advanced by the servicer of the mortgage loans, interest on such advances will also be allocated to such "first loss" securities prior to allocation to more senior classes of securities issued in the securitization. Prior to the reduction of distributions to more senior securities, distributions to the "first loss" securities may also be reduced by payments of compensation to any servicer engaged to enforce a defaulted mortgage loan. Such expenses and servicing compensation may be substantial and consequently, in the event of a default or loss on one or more mortgage loans contained in a securitization, we may not recover our investment. 22 Our investments in REIT securities are subject to risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in senior unsecured real estate securities, which may result in losses to us. In addition to general economic and market risks, our investments in REIT securities involve special risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. REITs generally are required to substantially invest in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments. Our investments in REIT securities and other senior unsecured debt are also subject to the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally related to interests in real property; and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. REIT securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinate to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in REIT securities that are rated below investment-grade. As a result, investments in REIT securities are also subject to risks of: · limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; · substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; · subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the REIT; · the operation of mandatory sinking fund or redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; · the possibility that earnings of the REIT may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations; and · the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturns. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding REIT securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make distributions. The mortgage loans we invest in and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities we invest in are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower under the loan. If the borrower defaults, it may result in losses to us. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure, loss and bankruptcy of the borrower. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: • tenant mix; • success of tenant businesses; • property management decisions; 23 • property location and condition; • competition from comparable types of properties; • changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged; • any need to address environmental contamination at the property; • the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property; • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments; • declines in regional or local real estate values; • declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates; • increases in interest rates; • real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; and • terrorism. Any one or a combination of these factors may cause a borrower to default on a loan or to declare bankruptcy. If a default or bankruptcy occurs and the underlying asset value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. We are subject to significant competition, and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. We are subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, some of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly traded REITs, private REITs, investment banking firms, private institutional funds and private opportunity funds. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. Many of our investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions, which may result in losses to us. Our investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to sell and purchase properties, securities and debt promptly in response to a change in economic or other conditions will be limited. The Internal Revenue Code also places limits on our ability to sell properties held for fewer than four years. These considerations could make it difficult for us to dispose of properties, even if a disposition were in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, a majority of the mortgage-backed securities, REIT securities and real estate debt that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions will not be registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in compliance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may result in losses to us. 24 We may not be able to acquire eligible securities for a CDO issuance, or may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our real estate securities investments or to liquidate assets. We acquire investment grade real estate securities and finance them on a long-term basis through the issuance of CDOs. Prior to a new investment grade CDO issuance, there is a period during which real estate securities are identified and acquired for inclusion in a CDO, known as the warehouse accumulation period. During this period, we direct the acquisition of securities under a warehouse facility from a warehouse provider that will be the lead manager of the CDO. The warehouse provider then purchases the securities and holds them on its balance sheet. We contribute cash and other collateral which is held in escrow by the warehouse provider to back our commitment to purchase equity in the investment grade CDO and to cover our share of losses should securities need to be liquidated. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire, during the period that our warehouse facility is available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO less attractive to us when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these assets or if doing so is not economical, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate the assets at a price that could result in a loss of all or a portion of the cash and other collateral backing our purchase commitment. Our warehouse facilities and our CDO financing agreements may limit our ability to make investments. In order for us to borrow money to make investments under our warehouse facilities, our warehouse providers have the right to review the potential investment for which we are seeking financing. We may be unable to obtain the consent of our warehouse providers to make investments that we believe are favorable to us. In the event that our warehouse providers do not consent to the inclusion of the potential asset in the warehouse facility, we may be unable to obtain alternate financing for that investment. Our warehouse provider's consent rights with respect to our warehouse facility may limit our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition, each CDO financing that we engage in will contain certain eligibility criteria with respect to the collateral that we seek to acquire and sell to the CDO issuer. If the collateral does not meet the eligibility criteria for eligible collateral as set forth in the transaction documents of such CDO transaction, we may not be able to acquire and sell such collateral to the CDO issuer. The inability of the collateral to meet eligibility requirements with respect to our CDOs may limit our ability to execute our business strategy. Our future investment grade CDOs will be collateralized with real estate securities that are similar to those collateralizing our four existing investment grade CDO issuances, and any adverse market trends that affect these types of real estate securities are likely to adversely affect our CDOs in general. Our existing investment grade CDO issuances are collateralized by fixed and floating rate CMBS, REIT debt and real estate CDOs, and we expect that our future issuances will be backed by similar securities. Any adverse market trends that affect the value of these types of securities will adversely impact the value of our interests in our CDOs. Such trends could include declines in real estate values in certain geographic markets or sectors, underperformance of CMBS issued in a particular year, or changes in federal income tax laws that could affect the performance of debt issued by REITs. We may make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated securities, which will be subject to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets, which may adversely impact our returns on non-dollar denominated investments. We may purchase CMBS denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that our exposure, if any, would be principally to the British pound and the euro. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely impact returns on our non-dollar denominated investments. We may hedge our foreign currency risk, subject to the REIT income qualification tests. However, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. 25 We may make investments in assets with lower credit quality, which will increase our risk of losses. We may invest in unrated securities, enter into net leases with unrated tenants or participate in unrated or distressed mortgage loans. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality investments and securities because the ability of obligors of net leases and mortgages, including mortgages underlying mortgage-backed securities, to make rent or principal and interest payments may be impaired. If this were to occur, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these investments and securities. We have not established and do not plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. We have no established investment criteria limiting the geographic concentration of our investments in real estate debt, real estate securities or net lease properties. If our investments are concentrated in an area that experiences adverse economic conditions, our investments may lose value and we may experience losses. Certain loans and securities in which we invest may be secured by a single property or properties in one geographic location. We hold leasehold interests in a portfolio of retail and commercial properties located in New York City. We also own a portfolio of three net leased commercial properties in Chatsworth, California. Net lease properties that we may acquire may also be located in New York City or may otherwise be located in a geographic cluster. These current and future investments carry the risks associated with significant geographical concentration. We have not established and do not plan to establish any investment criteria to limit our exposure to these risks for future investments. As a result, properties underlying our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas, and we may experience losses as a result. A worsening of economic conditions in the geographic area in which our investments may be concentrated could have an adverse effect on our business, including reducing the demand for new financings, limiting the ability of customers to pay financed amounts and impairing the value of our collateral. Our rights to the collateral underlying securities in which we invest may be unenforceable. Loans underlying the securities in which we invest are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. If this were to happen with respect to material assets or groups of assets serving as collateral for the securities in which we invest, we could be adversely affected. Interest rate fluctuations may reduce the spread we earn on our interest-earning investments and may reduce our net income. Market risk is the exposure to loss resulting from changes in interest rates and equity prices. Although we seek to finance our assets on a match-funded basis and mitigate the risk associated with future interest rate volatility, we are subject to credit risk and interest rate risk with respect to our investments in real estate debt and real estate securities. The primary market risk that we are exposed to is interest rate risk. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Our interest rate risk sensitive assets, liabilities and related derivative positions are generally held for non-trading purposes. As of December 31, 2005, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates applied to our variable rate assets would increase our annual interest income by approximately $6,888,000, offset by an increase in our interest expense of approximately $5,430,000 on our variable rate liabilities. Similarly, a hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in interest rates would decrease our annual interest income by the same net amount. 26 Our investments in real estate securities, mortgage notes, mezzanine loans and participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans are subject to changes in credit spreads and if spreads widen, the value of our loan and securities portfolios would decline. Our investments in real estate securities are subject to changes in credit spreads. The value of these securities is dependent upon the yield demanded on these securities by the market based on the underlying credit. Excessive supply of these securities combined with reduced demand will generally cause the market to require a higher yield on these real estate securities, resulting in the use of a higher, or "wider," spread over the benchmark rate to value such securities. Under such conditions, the value of our securities portfolio would tend to decline. Such changes in the market value of our portfolio may adversely affect our net equity or cash flow directly through their impact on unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities, and therefore our ability to realize gains on such securities, or indirectly through their impact on our ability to borrow and access capital. The value of our investments in mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and participation interests in mortgage and mezzanine loans are also subject to changes in credit spreads. The majority of the loans we invest in are floating rate loans valued based on a market credit spread to LIBOR. The value of the loans is dependent upon the yield demanded by the market based on their credit. The value of our portfolio would tend to decline should the market require a higher yield on such loans, resulting in the use of a higher spread over the benchmark rate. Any credit or spread losses incurred with respect to our loan portfolio would affect us in the same way as similar losses on our real estate securities portfolio as described above. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. To limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations, we may employ hedging strategies, including engaging in interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts as well as engaging in short sales of securities or of future contracts. The use of these types of derivatives to hedge our assets and liabilities carries certain risks, including the risks that: • losses on a hedge position will reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders; • losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; • a hedge may not perform its intended use of offsetting losses on an investment; • the counterparties with which we trade may cease making markets and quoting prices in such instruments, which may render us unable to enter into an offsetting transaction with respect to an open position; and • the counterparties with which we trade may experience business failures, which would most likely result in a default. Default by such counterparty may result in the loss of unrealized profits, which were expected to offset losses on our assets. Such defaults may also result in a loss of income on swaps or caps, which income was expected to be available to cover our debt service payments. Our board of directors adopted a general policy with respect to the use of derivatives which generally allows us to use derivatives where appropriate, but does not set forth specific policies and procedures. Our results of operations may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. If we anticipate that the income from any such hedging transaction will not be qualifying income for REIT income test purposes, we may conduct some or all of our hedging activities through a to-be-formed corporate subsidiary that is fully subject to federal corporate income taxation. 27 Prepayment rates can increase, adversely affecting yields on our investments. The value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans underlying the securities in which we intend to invest. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining mortgage interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. Investments in net lease properties may generate losses. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in net lease properties may be significantly adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • national, state and local economic climates; • real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for real estate space in the area; • the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; • competition from comparable properties; • the occupancy rate of our properties; • the ability to collect on a timely basis all rent from tenants; • the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; • the expense of re-leasing space; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws; 28 • cost of compliance with the American with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA; • adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies; • civil unrest; • acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); • acts of terrorism or war; • adverse changes in zoning laws; and • other factors which are beyond our control. We may not be able to relet or renew leases at the properties held by us on terms favorable to us. We are subject to the risks that upon expiration of leases for space located at our properties the space may not be relet or, if relet, the terms of the renewal or reletting (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. Any of these situations may result in extended periods where there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If we are unable to relet or renew leases for all or substantially all of the space at these properties, if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, we may be required to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders. Lease defaults or terminations or landlord-tenant disputes may adversely reduce our income from our net lease property portfolio. Lease defaults or terminations by one or more of our significant tenants may reduce our revenues unless a default is cured or a suitable replacement tenant is found promptly. In addition, disputes may arise between the landlord and tenant that result in the tenant withholding rent payments, possibly for an extended period. These disputes may lead to litigation or other legal procedures to secure payment of the rent withheld or to evict the tenant. Any of these situations may result in extended periods during which there is a significant decline in revenues or no revenues generated by a property. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our properties or our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of our investments. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at the property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. The owner or operator of a site may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may experience environmental liability arising from conditions not known to us. 29 We may invest in real estate, or mortgage loans secured by real estate, with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment. We have only limited experience in investing in real estate with environmental liabilities. Our insurance on our real estate may not cover all losses. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in both loss of cash flow from and the asset value of the affected property. As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, insurance companies are limiting and charging significant premiums to cover acts of terrorism in insurance policies. As a result, although we, our tenants or our borrowers generally carry terrorism insurance, we may suffer losses from acts of terrorism that are not covered by insurance. In addition, the mortgage loans which are secured by certain of our properties contain customary covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain property insurance in an amount equal to the replacement cost of the properties, which may increase the cost of obtaining the required insurance. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent and make riskier investments. We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. Our portfolio is leveraged, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution. We leverage our portfolio through borrowings, generally through the use of bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, mortgage loans on real estate, securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs, and other borrowings. The type and percentage of leverage varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and the lender's estimate of the stability of the portfolio's cash flow. However, we do not restrict the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Moreover, we may have to incur more recourse indebtedness. The repurchase agreements and bank credit facilities that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral. We use bank credit facilities, including repurchase agreements, to finance some of our investments, primarily on an interim basis. If the market value of the loans pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to pay down our debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support our credit facilities will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and solvency. 30 Further, our credit facility providers require us to maintain a certain amount of cash uninvested or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position in order to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute may contain negative covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations, and employ leverage beyond certain amounts, any of which may limit our operating flexibility. The use of CDO financings with coverage tests may have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. We have purchased, and expect to purchase in the future, subordinate classes of bonds in our CDO financings. The terms of the CDO securities issued by us include and will include coverage tests, including over-collateralization tests, which are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying collateral debt securities and other assets may be used to pay principal of and interest on the subordinate classes of bonds in the CDO. In the event the coverage tests are not satisfied, interest and principal that would otherwise be payable on the subordinate classes may be re-directed to pay principal on the senior bond classes. Therefore, our failure to satisfy the coverage tests could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Certain coverage tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may also restrict our ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure the CDOs. We cannot assure you, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on any future CDOs, the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect the availability of net income to us. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDOs will increase. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity's management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. 31 Credit ratings assigned to our investments are subject to ongoing evaluations and we cannot assure you that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded. Some of our investments are rated by Moody's Investors Service, Fitch Ratings or Standard & Poor's, Inc. The credit ratings on these investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Company In the past, our internal controls over financial reporting were found to have material weaknesses. Our management identified certain deficiencies in our predecessor's internal controls over financial reporting during the course of its review in December 2004 of the financial statements of our predecessor that were to be included in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. Based upon further investigation, we discovered certain errors in the accounting for transactions entered into during June 2004 and the third quarter of 2004 in connection with CDO II and in the reporting of allocated general and administrative expenses. These errors required us to adjust our predecessor's financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2004, as described in Note 2 to the financial statements included in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, and to make certain adjustments to our predecessor's financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004. The deficiencies identified by our management in December 2004 included (1) the communication between business unit personnel and financial reporting personnel with respect to the accounting for certain transactions associated with our predecessor's CDO investments and other company activity, (2) the level of training of accounting and financial reporting personnel, and (3) the level of detailed, quality control review of our predecessor's financial statements. Taken together, management concluded that these deficiencies rose to the level of a material weakness in our predecessor's internal controls over financial reporting for the three months ended September 30, 2004. In December 2004, our prior independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, advised our management and audit committee that it considered our internal controls over financial reporting to have the significant deficiencies identified by management in December 2004 which, considered in combination, constituted a material weakness in our internal controls. The term "material weakness" refers to an organization's internal control deficiency in which the design or operation of a component of internal control does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that a material misstatement may be contained in the organization's financial statements. In March 2005, Ernst & Young LLP advised our management and audit committee that such significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting continued to exist. Since December 2004, we have had to expend significant financial resources, and our management has had to spend significant time, in order to take a series of measures designed to remedy these significant deficiencies. We may continue to expend significant financial resources and time in order to improve our internal controls over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the Company carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on the “Internal Control - Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based upon this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005. Additionally, Grant Thornton LLP, our current independent registered public accounting firm, has audited management’s assessment and has issued an attestation report concurring with management’s assessment. We cannot assure you that there will not be any other significant deficiencies that in combination constitute material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. 32 Our ability to operate our business successfully would be harmed if key personnel with long-standing business relationships terminate their employment with us. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our key personnel, including certain of our executive officers and Mr. Hamamoto in particular. For instance, the extent and nature of the experience of our executive officers and nature of the relationships they have developed with real estate developers and financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. Our executive officers have significant real estate investment experience. We cannot assure you of their continued employment with us. The loss of services of certain of our executive officers could harm our business and our prospects. In connection with the IPO, our board of directors has adopted the NorthStar Realty Finance Corp. Long-Term Incentive Bonus Plan, which we refer to as the incentive bonus plan, in order to retain and incentivize officers and certain key employees. At December 31, 2005, based on the facts and information then available and assumptions regarding the returns on our investments at December 31, 2005, our management estimates that we will meet the hurdle of 12.5% return on invested capital during two one-year performance periods beginning October 1, 2005 and 2006 under the incentive bonus plan, and therefore, at December 31, 2005, we expect to issue awards under the incentive bonus plan. However, if we do not meet the return hurdles that our compensation committee established under the incentive bonus plan for the two-year period beginning October 1, 2005, we will ultimately not grant any awards under this plan to members of our management or other of our employees who provide services to us. As a result, we may be unable to motivate and retain our management and these other employees. Our inability to motivate and retain these individuals could also harm our business and our prospects. Additionally, competition for experienced real estate professionals could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract qualified employees, which could result in higher compensation expenses to us. We may not be able to renew our office sublease expiring in September 2007 or renew our sublease on comparable terms, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our primary office space, which we have subleased from NorthStar Capital, is set to expire in September 2007. Given the highly competitive leasing market and price appreciation in New York City since the commencement of the original lease, following September 2007 we will not likely be able to lease this office space on terms comparable to our existing terms, if at all. Paying more for this existing office space or relocating our business to a new office space could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and could have the effect of diverting our resources away from the focus of our core businesses. Our financial condition and results of operations depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on our ability to identify and invest in subordinated and senior real estate debt, real estate securities and net lease properties that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our structuring of the investment process and our access to financing on acceptable terms. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management has limited experience operating a publicly-owned REIT. We commenced operations upon consummation of our IPO in October 2004. Our management has limited experience operating a publicly-owned REIT. Given our recent IPO, you will be limited in fully evaluating our management's public company and REIT operational abilities. 33 We are subject to potential conflicts of interest in our relationship with our management relating to the time such individuals may devote to other matters for NorthStar Capital, and with NorthStar Capital, and our conflict of interest policies may not successfully eliminate the influence of such conflicts. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, David Hamamoto, is the Co-Chief Executive Officer of NorthStar Capital. We expect that Mr. Hamamoto will devote a majority of his time and efforts to managing our affairs. However, he also devotes such time as is necessary to the management of NorthStar Capital's business operations, and he may engage in other business ventures. As a result, Mr. Hamamoto may be subject to conflicts in prioritizing his time and efforts. Mr. McCready, our general counsel and secretary, also serves as a director and the President and Chief Operating Officer of NorthStar Capital. While Mr. McCready continues to devote a significant amount of his time to the business of NorthStar Capital, he devotes the majority of his time and efforts to our business affairs. In the future, we may enter into additional transactions with NorthStar Capital with the approval of the independent members of our board. Although Maryland law addresses certain conflicts of interest situations and our board has adopted certain policies relating to conflicts of interest requiring, among other things, that all transactions in which directors or executive officers have a material interest be approved by a majority of our disinterested directors, our policies or Maryland law requirements may not be successful in eliminating the influence of such conflicts. Assuming redemption of all operating partnership units beneficially owned by NorthStar Capital for shares of our common stock, NorthStar Capital would beneficially own approximately 11% of our common stock and may be able to significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Assuming redemption of all operating partnership units beneficially owned by NorthStar Capital for shares of our common stock, NorthStar Capital would beneficially own approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock. If NorthStar Capital causes the redemption of these operating partnership units and we elect to issue shares of our common stock in exchange for such units, NorthStar Capital may be able to significantly influence the election of all of the members of our board of directors and the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities. NorthStar Capital's influence over us may not always be exerted in a manner consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term "investment securities," among other things, are U.S. government securities and securities issued by majority owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses through subsidiaries, this means that the securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception from the definition of "investment company" in Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through these subsidiaries. 34 A majority of our subsidiaries rely on exceptions and exemptions from the Investment Company Act. These exceptions and exemptions limit the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase. For instance, CDO II, CDO III and CDO V rely on the exemption from the Investment Company Act provided by Rule 3a-7 thereunder, which is available for certain structured financing vehicles. This exemption limits the ability of these CDOs to sell their assets and reinvest the proceeds from asset sales. Our subsidiary that invests in net lease properties relies on the exception from the definition of "investment company" provided by Sections 3(c)(6) and 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, and CDO IV similarly relies on the 3(c)(5)(C) exception from the definition of "investment company". These exceptions except companies that primarily invest in real estate, mortgages and certain other qualifying real estate assets. Relying on the exception from the definition of "investment company" provided by 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, CDO IV is limited in the types of real estate related assets that it could invest in. We believe that neither our operating partnership nor the subsidiary REIT through which we hold the substantial majority of our investments are investment companies because each of them satisfy the 40% test of Section 3(a)(1)(C). We must monitor their holdings to ensure that the value of their investment securities does not exceed 40% of their respective total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Our subsidiaries that engage in operating businesses are not subject to the Investment Company Act. If the combined value of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that rely on the exception provided by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, exceeds 40% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of our control. This could depress our stock price. Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's shares or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. 35 The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has exempted any business combinations (a) between us and NorthStar Capital or any of its affiliates and (b) between us and any person, provided that any such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person). Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements do not apply to business combinations between us and any of them. As a result, such parties may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions in the statute. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and authorizes our board, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board could establish a series of common stock or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Maryland law also allows a corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act, and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to a classified board, unless its charter prohibits such an election. Our charter contains a provision prohibiting such an election to classify our board under this provision of Maryland law. This makes the company more vulnerable to a change in control. If our stockholders voted to amend this charter provision and to classify our board of directors, the staggered terms of our directors could reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risks Related to REIT Tax Status Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We intend to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial and administrative interpretations exist. Even an inadvertent or technical mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our common stock. We hold a substantial majority of our assets in a majority owned subsidiary, which we refer to as our private REIT. Our private REIT is organized to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our private REIT must also meet all of the REIT qualification tests under the Internal Revenue Code. If the private REIT did not qualify as a REIT, it is likely that NorthStar Realty would also not qualify as a REIT. If, for any reason, we failed to qualify as a REIT and unless we were entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we would be unable to elect REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to so qualify. 36 Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow funds to make distributions to stockholders or otherwise depend on external sources of capital to fund such distributions. To qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. While we intend to make distributions sufficient to avoid imposition of the 4% tax, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. We anticipate that distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income, although a portion of such distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gain to the extent attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that such distribution exceeds our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes due to, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders (for example, if a borrower defers the payment of interest in cash pursuant to a contractual right or otherwise). If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Because of the distribution requirement, it is unlikely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund future capital needs, we likely will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including both debt and equity financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our common stock. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations. 37 Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. As discussed above, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. We must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets), and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences, unless certain relief provisions apply. As a result, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of profit maximization and may require us to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. In general, income from hedging transactions does not constitute qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income requirements. To the extent, however, that we enter into a hedging contract to reduce interest rate risk or foreign currency risk on indebtedness incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, any income that we derive from the contract would be excluded from gross income for purposes of calculating the REIT 95% gross income test if specified requirements are met, but would not be excluded and would not be qualifying income for purposes of calculating the REIT 75% gross income test. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur. Liquidation of collateral may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our mortgage and preferred equity investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a stockholder. Legislation enacted in 2003 generally reduced the federal income tax rate on most dividends paid by corporations to individual investors to a maximum of 15%. REIT dividends, with limited exceptions, do not benefit from the rate reduction, because a REIT's income is generally not subject to corporate level tax. As such, this legislation could cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual investors than shares in REITs and could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. 38 The stock ownership restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limit in our charter may inhibit market activity in our stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities, may not own, actually or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person, including entities, may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares of stock or more than 9.8% in value or number (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. The board may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Despite these restrictions, it is possible that there will be five or fewer individuals who own more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the stockholders. The "taxable mortgage pool" rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. Certain of our current and future securitizations could be considered to result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as we own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, we would generally not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt "disqualified organizations," such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, although Treasury regulations have not yet been drafted to clarify the law, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, all of our investors and not just our investors who are "disqualified organizations" will bear a portion of the cost associated with the imposition of such tax on us. See "Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation of NorthStar Realty—Taxable Mortgage Pools" and "Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation of Stockholders—Taxation of Tax-Exempt Stockholders." Moreover, we would be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 39 ITEM 