Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to stockholders. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the various other factors identified in or incorporated by reference into any other documents filed by us with the SEC in evaluating our company and our business. The risks discussed herein can adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Company Interest rate mismatches between the interest-earning assets held in our investment portfolio, particularly RMBS, and the borrowings used to fund the purchases of those assets may reduce our net income or result in a loss during periods of changing interest rates. Certain of the RMBS held in our investment portfolio have a fixed coupon rate, generally for a significant period, and in some cases, for the average maturity of the asset. At the same time, our repurchase agreements and other borrowings typically provide for a payment reset period of 30 days or less. In addition, the average maturity of our borrowings generally will be shorter than the average maturity of the RMBS in our portfolio and in which we seek to invest. Historically, we have used swap agreements as a means for attempting to fix the cost of certain of our liabilities over a period of time; however, these agreements will generally not be sufficient to match the cost of all our liabilities against all of our investment securities. In the event we experience unexpectedly high or low prepayment rates on our RMBS, our strategy for matching our assets with our liabilities is more likely to be unsuccessful. Interest rate fluctuations will also cause variances in the yield curve, which may reduce our net income. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on the RMBS and other interest-earning assets in our investment portfolio. Because the RMBS in our investment portfolio typically bear interest based on longer-term rates while our borrowings typically bear interest based on short-term rates, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of these securities. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields of the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur significant operating losses. A flat or inverted yield curve may also result in an adverse environment for adjustable-rate RMBS volume, as there may be little incentive for borrowers to choose the underlying mortgage loans over a longer-term fixed-rate loan. If the supply of adjustable-rate RMBS decreases, yields may decline due to market forces. Declines in the market values of assets in our investment portfolio may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The market value of the interest-bearing assets in which we invest, most notably RMBS and purchased prime ARM loans and any related hedging instruments, may move inversely with changes in interest rates. We anticipate that increases in interest rates will tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our interest-bearing assets. Substantially all of the RMBS within our investment portfolio is classified for accounting purposes either as “trading securities” or as “available for sale.” Changes in the market values of trading securities will be reflected in earnings and changes in the market values of available for sale securities will be reflected in stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in market values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in market value of an available for sale security is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. A decline in the market value of our RMBS and other interest-bearing assets, such as the decline we experienced during the market disruption in March 2008, may adversely affect us, particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan, which would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. 16 Table of Contents In March 2008, due in part to decreases in the market value of certain of the RMBS held in our portfolio caused by the March 2008 market disruption and the related increase in collateral requirements by our lenders, we elected to improve our liquidity position by selling an aggregate of approximately $598.9 million of Agency RMBS, resulting in a net loss in earnings during that quarter. Similar to March 2008, if we are, or anticipate being, unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. In the event that we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions may accelerate indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow, any of which could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Moreover, if we liquidate the assets at prices lower than the amortized cost of such assets, we will incur losses. We may change our investment strategy, operating policies and/or asset allocations without stockholder consent, any of which could result in losses. We may change our investment strategy, operating policies and/or asset allocation with respect to investments, acquisitions, leverage, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which may result in riskier investments. Although we have most recently employed a portfolio strategy that focuses on investments in Agency RMBS, we expect to commence investments under our alternative investment strategy in 2009. In connection with a $20.0 million preferred equity investment in our company by JMP Group, Inc. and certain of its affiliates in January 2008, we entered into an advisory agreement with HCS, pursuant to which HCS will manage any alternative investment strategy conducted through the Managed Subsidiaries during the term of the advisory agreement. Since entering into the advisory agreement, we have explored and will continue to consider alternative investments, including those outside of our targeted asset class, that we believe will be accretive to earnings and may allow us to utilize all or a portion of an approximately $64.0 million net operating loss carry-forward. Such alternative investments may include, without limitation, lower rated non-Agency RMBS, CMBS and corporate CLO securities as well as equity participations in funds or companies that invest in similar type assets. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and/or credit risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in asset categories different from our historical investments and in which we have limited or no investment experience. These changes could result in a decline in earnings or losses which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or our ability to pay dividends. Continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market, and the economy generally, may adversely affect our business, particularly our ability to acquire Agency RMBS and the value of the Agency RMBS that we hold in our portfolio as well as our ability to finance or sell our Agency RMBS. In recent years, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions, including declining home values, heightened defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns. Over the past year, news of potential and actual security liquidations has increased the volatility of many financial assets, including Agency RMBS and other high-quality residential MBS assets. These recent disruptions have materially adversely affected the performance and market value of the RMBS in our portfolio and prime ARM loans held in securitization trusts, as well as other interest-earning assets that we may consider acquiring in the future. Securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have had higher and earlier than expected rates of delinquencies. In addition, the U.S. economy is presently mired in a recession, with housing prices that continue to fall in many areas around the country while unemployment rates continue to rise, further increasing the risk for higher delinquency rates. Many RMBS and other interest-earning assets have been downgraded by rating agencies in recent years, and rating agencies may further downgrade these securities in the future. Lenders have imposed additional and more stringent equity requirements necessary to finance these assets and frequent impairments based on mark-to-market valuations have generated substantial collateral calls in the industry. As a result of these difficulties and changed economic conditions, many companies operating in the mortgage specialty finance sectors have failed and others, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are facing serious operating and financial challenges. While the U.S. Federal Reserve has taken certain actions in an effort to ameliorate the current market conditions, and the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, which is the federal regulator now assigned to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are also taking actions, these efforts may be ineffective. As a result of these factors, among others, the market for these securities may be adversely affected for a significant period of time. 17 Table of Contents During the past year, housing prices and appraisal values in many states have declined or stopped appreciating, after extended periods of significant appreciation. A continued decline or an extended flattening of those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, particularly with respect to second homes and investor properties and with respect to any residential mortgage loans, the aggregate loan amounts of which (including any subordinate liens) are close to or greater than the related property values. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guarantee the payments of principal and interest on the Agency RMBS in our portfolio even if the borrowers of the underlying mortgage loans default on their payments. However, rising delinquencies and market perception can still negatively affect the value of our Agency RMBS or create market uncertainty about their true value. While the market disruptions have been most pronounced in the non-Agency RMBS market, the impact has extended to Agency RMBS. During a significant portion of 2008, the value of Agency RMBS were unstable and relatively illiquid compared to prior periods. Agency RMBS guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not supported by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have suffered significant losses and on September 6, 2008, FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship. Despite these steps, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could default on their guarantee obligations which would materially and adversely affect the value of our Agency RMBS or other Agency indebtedness in which we may invest in the future. We generally post our Agency RMBS as collateral for our borrowings under repurchase agreements. Any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or to maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing arrangements. The value of Agency RMBS may decline for several reasons, including, for example, rising delinquencies and defaults, increases in interest rates, falling home prices and credit uncertainty at Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. In addition, since early 2008, repurchase lenders have been requiring higher levels of collateral to support loans collateralized by Agency RMBS than they have in the past, making borrowings more difficult and expensive. At the same time, market uncertainty about residential mortgage loans in general could continue to depress the market for Agency RMBS, which means that it may be more difficult for us to sell Agency RMBS on favorable terms or at all. Further, a decline in the value of Agency RMBS could subject us to margin calls, for which we may have insufficient liquidity to support, resulting in forced sales of our assets at inopportune times. If market conditions result in a decline in available purchasers of Agency RMBS or the value of our Agency RMBS, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, may adversely affect our business. The payments we expect to receive on the Agency RMBS we hold in our portfolio and in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Since 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, Congress and the U.S. Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these government-sponsored entities and the financial markets, generally, including placing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship on September 7, 2008. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and certain other actions taken by the U.S. Treasury and U.S. Federal Reserve were designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s debt and mortgage-backed securities. The U.S. government program includes contracts between the U.S. Treasury and each government-sponsored enterprise to seek to ensure that each enterprise maintains a positive net worth. Each contract has a capacity of $100 billion and provides for the provision of cash by the U.S. Treasury to the government-sponsored enterprise if FHFA determines that its liabilities exceed its assets. Each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has already requested or expects to request significant funds from these facilities. It is possible that each of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae may seek and require amounts in excess of the $100 billion capacity and such amounts may be unavailable. In addition to these contracts between the U.S. Treasury and each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that provide for an infusion of capital, the U.S. Treasury has established a secured credit facility for these entities and initiated a temporary program to purchase Agency RMBS issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Although the U.S. government has described some specific steps and reforms that it intends to take as part of the conservatorship process, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have continued to incur losses and efforts to stabilize these entities may not be successful and the outcome and impact of these events remain highly uncertain. 18 Table of Contents Although the U.S. government has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there can be no assurance that the credit facilities and other capital infusions will be adequate for their needs. If the financial support is inadequate, these companies could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. Since Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in conservatorship, then-current U.S. Treasury Secretary Paulson began urging Congress to re-examine the fundamental structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Mr. Paulson later commented that allowing the two companies to return to their previous operating approach was not a viable option. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse implications for the market and for our business. Recently, Federal Reserve indicated that it will purchase up to an additional $750 billion of Agency RMBS, bringing its total purchase commitments to $1.25 trillion. The U.S. Treasury also implemented a temporary program to purchase RMBS. Purchases under the U.S. Treasury’s program began in September 2008 and the Federal Reserve’s program in January 2009, but there is no certainty that the U.S. Treasury or the Federal Reserve will continue to purchase additional Agency RMBS in the future. Each of the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve may hold its portfolio of Agency RMBS to maturity, and, based on mortgage market conditions, may make adjustments to the portfolio. This flexibility may adversely affect the pricing and availability for our target assets. It is also possible that the U.S. Treasury’s commitment to purchase Agency RMBS in the future could create additional demand that would increase the pricing of Agency RMBS held in our portfolio and in which we invest. The U.S. Treasury could also stop providing credit support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the future. The U.S. Congress granted the U.S. Treasury authority to purchase RMBS and to provide financial support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. This authority expires on December 31, 2009. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the U.S. government in providing liquidity for mortgage loans. Following expiration of the current authorization, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the U.S. government could determine to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, we would not be able, or if their structures were to change radically, we might not be able, to acquire Agency RMBS from these companies, which would adversely affect our current business model. Our income also could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from the Agency RMBS in our portfolio and in which we invest, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of Agency RMBS could also negatively affect the pricing of the Agency RMBS held in our portfolio and in which we invest by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. Any law affecting these government-sponsored enterprises may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac Agency RMBS. It also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the actions taken by the U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of seeking to stabilize the financial markets will achieve the intended effect or benefit our business, and further government or market developments could adversely affect us. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, EESA was enacted by the U.S. Congress. EESA provides the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury with the authority to establish TARP to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008. In addition, under TARP, the U.S. Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve, may purchase any other financial instrument deemed necessary to promote financial market stability, upon transmittal of such determination, in writing, to the appropriate committees of the U.S. Congress. EESA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. 19 Table of Contents The U.S. Treasury used the first $350 billion available under TARP to make preferred equity investments in certain financial institutions rather than purchase illiquid mortgage-related assets held by these financial institutions. On February 10 ,2009, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury announced the U.S. government’s plan for the remaining balance of funds available under TARP, which includes a capital assistance program for banking institutions, a public-private investment fund that is expected to purchase certain illiquid mortgage-related assets, a consumer and business lending initiative that will improve the flow of credit to businesses and consumers, and a commitment to the continued purchase of RMBS issued by GSEs. On February 18, 2009, the President of the United States announced a plan designed to reverse the trend of increasing home foreclosures, which will be funded under TARP. The U.S. government has indicated that the new plan will involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans, an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings, and an additional $200 billion capital infusion to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to improve credit availability for residential mortgages. However, the U.S. government has provided few specific details regarding this new foreclosure mitigation plan. On March 23, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced the creation of a public-private investment program designed to attract private capital to purchase eligible legacy loans from participating banks and eligible legacy securities in the secondary market through FDIC debt guarantees, equity co-investment by the U.S. Treasury and government-supported term asset-backed loan facilities as applicable. It remains unclear whether this initiative will achieve its intended effects. On November 25, 2008, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced that it would initiate a program to purchase $500 billion in Agency RMBS backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. The U.S. Federal Reserve stated that its actions are intended to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses, which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally. The purchases of Agency RMBS began on January 5, 2009. In March 2009, the Federal Reserve announced that it would purchase up to an additional $750 billion of Agency RMBS, bringing its total purchase commitment for Agency RMBS to $1.25 trillion. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s program to purchase Agency RMBS could cause an increase in the price of Agency MBS, which would negatively impact the net interest margin with respect to the Agency RMBS that we may acquire in the future. There can be no assurance that EESA or the U.S. Federal Reserve’s actions will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets. To the extent the markets do not respond favorably to TARP, or TARP does not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation and such result may have broad adverse market implications. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis, such as the U.S. government’s recent passage of a $787 billion economic stimulus plan. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what effect, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns, on the interest-earning assets in which we invest. During the six months ended December 31, 2008, the U.S. government, through the Federal Housing Authority and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. More recently, on February 18, 2009, the President of the United States announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is intended to stabilize the housing market by providing relief to distressed homeowners in an effort to reduce or forestall home foreclosures. Among other things, the HASP is designed to (i) enable responsible homeowners to refinance in certain instances where their home value has fallen below the amount outstanding on the homeowner’s mortgage, (ii) address certain “at-risk” homeowners by providing cash incentives to lenders to refinance the homeowner’s mortgage to a lower interest rates and subsidizing in part a reduction in the outstanding mortgage principal, (iii) provide for an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings and (iv) support lower mortgage interest rates by increasing the U.S. Treasury’s preferred stock investment in each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to $200 billion, increasing the size of the companies’ retained mortgage portfolios to $900 billion each and reaffirming its commitment to continue purchasing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac issued RMBS. This new U.S. government program, as well as future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the interest-earning assets in which we invest. Changes in prepayment rates on our RMBS may decrease our net interest income. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the mortgage-backed securities that we hold in our investment portfolio and in which we invest. We will generally receive principal distributions from the principal payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When borrowers repay their mortgage loans faster than expected, this will result in prepayments that are faster than expected on the related-RMBS. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Faster than expected prepayments could adversely affect our profitability, including in the following ways: 20 Table of Contents · We have purchased RMBS, and may purchase in the future investment securities, that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time of purchase. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we are required to pay a premium over the face amount of the security to acquire the security. In accordance with accounting rules, we amortize this premium over the anticipated term of the mortgage security. If principal distributions are received faster than anticipated, we would be required to expense the premium faster. We may not be able to reinvest the principal distributions received on these investment securities in similar new mortgage-related securities and, to the extent that we can do so, the effective interest rates on the new mortgage-related securities will likely be lower than the yields on the mortgages that were prepaid. · We also may acquire RMBS or other investment securities at a discount. If the actual prepayment rates on a discount mortgage security are slower than anticipated at the time of purchase, we would be required to recognize the discount as income more slowly than anticipated. This would adversely affect our profitability. Slower than expected prepayments also may adversely affect the market value of a discount mortgage security. A flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect prepayment rates on and supply of our RMBS. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. We believe that when the yield curve is relatively flat, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into hybrid mortgages with longer initial fixed rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our RMBS, or investment securities, to experience faster prepayments. In addition, a flatter yield curve generally leads to fixed-rate mortgage rates that are closer to the interest rates available on hybrid ARMs and ARMs, possibly decreasing the supply of the RMBS we seek to acquire. At times, short-term interest rates may increase and exceed long-term interest rates, causing an inverted yield curve. When the yield curve is inverted, fixed-rate mortgage rates may approach or be lower than hybrid ARMs or ARM rates, further increasing prepayments on, and negatively impacting the supply of, our RMBS. Increases in prepayments on our portfolio will cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. Interest rate caps on our adjustable-rate RMBS may reduce our income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. The mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate RMBS typically will be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Additionally, we may invest in ARMs with an initial “teaser” rate that will provide us with a lower than market interest rate initially, which may accordingly have lower interest rate caps than ARMs without such teaser rates. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during a given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of a mortgage loan. If these interest rate caps apply to the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate RMBS, the interest distributions made on the related RMBS will be similarly impacted. Our borrowings may not be subject to similar interest rate caps. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while caps would limit the interest distributions on our adjustable-rate RMBS. Further, some of the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate RMBS may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest on those loans being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we could receive less interest distributions on adjustable-rate RMBS, particularly those with an initial teaser rate, than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could lower our net interest income, cause us to suffer a net loss or cause us to incur additional borrowings to fund interest payments during periods of rising interest rates or sell our investments at a loss. Competition may prevent us from acquiring mortgage-related assets at favorable yields, which would negatively impact our profitability. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring mortgage-related assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than us. As a result, we may not in the future be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs which, would adversely affect our profitability. We may experience periods of illiquidity for our assets which could adversely affect our ability to finance our business or operate profitably. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of our interest-earning assets at advantageous times or in a timely manner because these assets generally experience periods of illiquidity. The lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, legal or contractual restrictions on resale or disruptions in the secondary markets. This illiquidity may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to finance our business and could cause us to incur substantial losses. 21 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates can have negative effects on us, including causing a decrease in the volume of newly-issued, or investor demand for, RMBS, which could harm our financial condition and adversely affect our operations. An increase in interest rates can have various negative affects on us. Increases in interest rates may negatively affect the fair market value of our RMBS and other interest-earning assets. When interest rates rise, the value of RMBS and fixed-rate investment securities generally declines. Typically, as interest rates rise, prepayments on the underlying mortgage loans tend to slow. The combination of rising interest rates and declining prepayments may negatively affect the price of RMBS, and the effect can be particularly pronounced with fixed-rate RMBS. In accordance with GAAP, we will be required to reduce the carrying value of our RMBS by the amount of any decrease in the fair value of our RMBS compared to amortized cost. If unrealized losses in fair value occur, we will either have to reduce current earnings or reduce stockholders’ equity without immediately affecting current earnings, depending on how we classify our assets under GAAP. In either case, our net stockholders’ equity will decrease to the extent of any realized or unrealized losses in fair value and our financial position will be negatively impacted. Furthermore, rising interest rates generally reduce the demand for consumer and commercial credit, including mortgage loans, due to the higher cost of borrowing. A reduction in the volume of mortgage loans originated may affect the volume of RMBS available to us, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment objectives. Rising interest rates may also cause Agency RMBS and other interest-earning assets that were issued prior to an interest rate increase to provide yields that are below prevailing market interest rates. If rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of Agency RMBS and other interest-earning assets with a yield that is above our borrowing cost, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends, may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in interest rates, particularly higher interest rates, can also harm the credit performance of our interest-earning assets. Higher interest rates could reduce the ability of borrowers to make interest payments or to refinance their loans and could reduce property values, all of which could increase our credit losses. In the event we experience a significant increase in credit losses as a result of higher interest rates, our earnings and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Recent market conditions may upset the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which would make it more difficult for us to analyze our investment portfolio. Our success depends on our ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our Agency RMBS. Changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of the Agency RMBS that we hold in our portfolio and in which we intend to invest. In managing our investment portfolio, to assess the effects of interest rate changes and prepayment trends on our investment portfolio, we typically rely on certain assumptions that are based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. If the recent dislocations in the residential mortgage market or other developments change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, our ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) effectively hedge our interest rate risk and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. A substantial majority of the RMBS within our investment portfolio is recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our management based on market quotations from brokers and dealers. Although we currently are able to obtain market quotations for assets in our portfolio, we may be unable to obtain quotations from brokers and dealers for certain assets within our investment portfolio in the future, in which case our management may need to determine in good faith the fair value of these assets. Substantially all of the assets held within our investment portfolio are in the form of securities that are not publicly traded on a national securities exchange or quotation system. The fair value of securities and other assets that are not publicly traded in this manner may not be readily determinable. A substantial majority of the assets in our investment portfolio are valued by us at fair value as determined in good faith by our management based on market quotations from brokers and dealers. Although we currently are able to obtain quotations from brokers and dealers for assets within our investment portfolio, we may be unable to obtain such quotations on other assets in our investment portfolio in the future, in which case, our manager may need to determine in good faith the fair value of these assets. Because such quotations and valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these assets are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Misjudgments regarding the fair value of our assets that we subsequently recognize may also result in impairments that we must recognize. Loan delinquencies on our prime ARM loans held in securitization trusts may increase as a result of significantly increased monthly payments required from ARM borrowers after the initial fixed period. The scheduled increase in monthly payments on certain adjustable rate mortgage loans held in our securitization trusts may result in higher delinquency rates on those mortgage loans and could have a material adverse affect on our net income and results of operations. This increase in borrowers' monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their mortgage loans may no longer be able to fund available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates or at all. A decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance their loans or sell their homes. In addition, these mortgage loans may have prepayment premiums that inhibit refinancing. We may be required to repurchase loans if we breached representations and warranties from loan sale transactions, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. Loans from our discontinued mortgage lending operations that were sold to third parties under agreements include numerous representations and warranties regarding the manner in which the loan was originated, the property securing the loan and the borrower. If these representations or warranties are found to have been breached, we may be required to repurchase the loan. We may be forced to resell these repurchased loans at a loss, which could harm our profitability and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Under our alternative investment strategy, the mortgage loans we may invest directly in and those underlying our CMBS and RMBS are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Under our alternative investment strategy, we may invest in CMBS, non-Agency RMBS and other mortgage assets, including mortgage loans. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multi-family or commercial property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Such income can be affected by many factors. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property depends on the income or assets of the borrower. Many factors may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. ABS are bonds or notes backed by loans or other financial assets. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan. This could impair our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the loan will be deemed secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court). The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be expensive and lengthy. This could impair our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Moreover, RMBS represent interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and CMBS represent interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. To the extent a foreclosure or loss occurs on the underlying mortgage loan, we will receive less principal and interest from that security in the future. Accordingly, the CMBS and non-Agency RMBS we may invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Our investments in subordinated CMBS or RMBS could subject us to increased risk of losses. Under our alternative investment strategy, we may invest in securities that represent subordinated tranches of CMBS or non-Agency RMBS. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by any cash reserve fund or letter of credit provided by the borrower, and then by the first loss subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit—and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest—we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy delinquent interest and principal payments due on the related CMBS or RMBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the first loss position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying mortgage-backed securities to make principal and interest payments or to refinance may be impaired. In this case, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. Our alternative assets may include high yield or subordinated corporate securities that have greater risks of loss than other investments, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash available for dividends. Under alternative investment strategy, our assets may include high yield or subordinated securities, which involve a higher degree of risk than other investments. Numerous factors may affect a company’s ability to repay its high yield or subordinated securities, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. These securities may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Our right to payment and security interest with respect to such securities may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. Our due diligence may not reveal all the liabilities associated with an alternative investment and may not reveal other investment performance issues. Before investing in an alternative asset, we review the loans or other assets comprising the investment and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In this process, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by HCS, its affiliates or third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to new or private companies because there may be little or no information publicly available about them. Our due diligence processes might not uncover all relevant facts, thus resulting in investment losses. 23 Table of Contents Risk Related to Our Debt Financing Continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market and financial markets, including recent mergers, acquisitions or bankruptcies of potential repurchase agreement counterparties, as well as defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns, could make it difficult for us to borrow money to fund our investment strategy or continue to fund our investment portfolio on a leveraged basis, on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our profitability. We rely on the availability of financing to acquire Agency RMBS and to fund our investment portfolio on a leveraged basis. Since March 2008, there have been several announcements of proposed mergers, acquisitions or bankruptcies of investment banks and commercial banks that have historically acted as repurchase agreement counterparties. This has resulted in a fewer number of potential repurchase agreement counterparties operating in the market and reduced financing capacity. In addition, many commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies have announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential mortgage market. These losses have reduced financial industry capital, leading to reduced liquidity for some institutions. Institutions from which we seek to obtain financing may have owned or financed RMBS which have declined in value and caused them to suffer losses as a result of the recent downturn in the residential mortgage market. If these conditions persist, these institutions may be forced to exit the repurchase market, merge with another counterparty, become insolvent or further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital or haircut required to obtain financing. Moreover, because our equity market capitalization places us at the low end of market capitalization among all mortgage REITs, continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may cause some of our lenders to reduce or terminate our access to future borrowings before those of our competitors. Any of these events could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements and that would adversely affect our profitability. Currently, a significant portion of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. If the interest rates on these agreements increase at a rate higher than the increase in rates payable on our investments, our profitability would be adversely affected. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: · the movement of interest rates; · the availability of financing in the market; and · the value and liquidity of our mortgage-related assets. Currently, repurchase agreement lenders are requiring higher levels of collateral than they have required in the past to support repurchase agreements collateralized by Agency RMBS and if this continues it will make our borrowings and use of leverage less attractive and more expensive. Many financial institutions have increased lending margins for Agency RMBS to approximately 5.0% on average, which means that we are required to pledge Agency RMBS having a value of 105% of the amount of our borrowings. These increased lending margins may require us to post additional cash collateral for our Agency RMBS. If the interest rates, lending margins or collateral requirements under these repurchase agreements increase, or if lenders impose other onerous terms to obtain this type of financing, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure to procure adequate debt financing, or to renew or replace existing debt financing as it matures, would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the value of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends. We use debt financing as a strategy to increase our return on investments in our investment portfolio. However, we may not be able to achieve our desired debt-to-equity ratio for a number of reasons, including the following: · our lenders do not make debt financing available to us at acceptable rates; or · our lenders require that we pledge additional collateral to cover our borrowings, which we may be unable to do. The dislocations in the residential mortgage market and credit markets have led lenders, including the financial institutions that provide financing for our investments, to heighten their credit review standards, and, in some cases, to reduce or eliminate loan amounts available to borrowers. As a result, we cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, debt funding will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Furthermore, because we rely primarily on short-term borrowings to finance our investment portfolio, our ability to achieve our investment objective depends not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings. As of December 31, 2008, substantially all of our borrowings under repurchase agreements bore maturities of 30 days or less. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we will have to sell some or all of our assets, possibly under adverse market conditions. The repurchase agreements that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral, which could reduce our liquidity and harm our financial condition. We intend to use repurchase agreements to finance our investments. If the market value of the loans or securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced, but we may not have the funds available to do so. Posting additional collateral to support our repurchase agreements will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral at inopportune times and terminate our ability to borrow. This could result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly require us to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 24 Table of Contents We currently leverage our equity, which will exacerbate any losses we incur on our current and future investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We currently leverage our equity through borrowings, generally through the use of repurchase agreements and CDOs, which are obligations issued in multiple classes secured by an underlying portfolio of securities, and we may, in the future, utilize other forms of borrowing. The amount of leverage we incur varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and our lenders’ estimates of the value of our portfolio’s cash flow. The return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Further, the leverage on our equity may exacerbate any losses we incur. Our debt service payments will reduce the net income available for distribution to our stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to sale to satisfy our debt obligations. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to margin calls under our repurchase agreements which we will have to satisfy. Significant decreases in asset valuation, such as occurred during March 2008, could lead to increased margin calls, and we may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls. We have a target overall leverage amount for our RMBS investment portfolio of seven to nine times our equity, but there is no established limitation, other than may be required by our financing arrangements, on our leverage ratio or on the aggregate amount of our borrowings. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our RMBS portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are limited in our ability to leverage our assets, the returns on our portfolio may be harmed. A key element of our strategy is our use of leverage to increase the size of our RMBS portfolio in an attempt to enhance our returns. To finance our RMBS investment portfolio, we generally seek to borrow between seven and nine times the amount of our equity. At December 31, 2008 our leverage ratio for our RMBS investment portfolio, which we define as our outstanding indebtedness under repurchase agreements divided by total stockholders’ equity and our Series A Preferred Stock, was 6.8:1. This definition of the leverage ratio is consistent with the manner in which the credit providers under our repurchase agreement calculate our leverage. Our repurchase agreements are not currently committed facilities, meaning that the counterparties to these agreements may at any time choose to restrict or eliminate our future access to the facilities and we have no other committed credit facilities through which we may leverage our equity. If we are unable to leverage our equity to the extent we currently anticipate, the returns on our portfolio could be diminished, which may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we would incur losses. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell RMBS to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same RMBS back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the RMBS to the lender is less than the value of those RMBS (this difference is referred to as the “haircut”), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same RMBS back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the RMBS). Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Our repurchase agreements contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 25 Table of Contents Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us. The Company's liquidity may be adversely affected by margin calls under its repurchase agreements because they are dependent in part on the lenders' valuation of the collateral securing the financing. Each of these repurchase agreements allows the lender, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to reflect market value. If a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring the Company to post additional collateral to cover the decrease. When the Company is subject to such a margin call, it must provide the lender with additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings with minimal notice. Any such margin call could harm the Company's liquidity, results of operation and financial condition. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, the Company may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause it to incur further losses and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. We use derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps and caps, to hedge our liabilities and this has certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedging transaction will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders and that such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments. Our Board of Directors has adopted a general policy with respect to the use of derivatives, and which generally allows us to use derivatives when we deem appropriate for risk management purposes, but does not set forth specific guidelines. To the extent consistent with maintaining our status as a REIT, we may use derivatives, including interest rate swaps and caps, options, term repurchase contracts, forward contracts and futures contracts, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. However, a hedge may not be effective in eliminating the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives in a hedging transaction. Our use of hedging strategies to mitigate our interest rate exposure may not be effective and may expose us to counterparty risks. In accordance with our operating policies, we may pursue various types of hedging strategies, including swaps, caps and other derivative transactions, to seek to mitigate or reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and financing sources used and other changing market conditions. No hedging strategy, however, can completely insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed or that the implementation of any hedging strategy would have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Certain of the U.S. federal income tax requirements that we must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT may limit our ability to hedge against such risks. We will not enter into derivative transactions if we believe that they will jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: · interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; · available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; · the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; · the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through taxable REIT subsidiaries (or TRSs)) to offset interest rate losses is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs; · the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and · the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. 26 Table of Contents We primarily use swaps to hedge against anticipated future increases in interest rates on our repurchase agreements. Should a swap counterparty be unable to make required payments pursuant to such swap, the hedged liability would cease to be hedged for the remaining term of the swap. In addition, we may be at risk for any collateral held by a hedging counterparty to a swap, should such counterparty become insolvent or file for bankruptcy. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of hedging instruments may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Risks Related to the Advisory Agreement with HCS We are dependent on HCS and certain of its key personnel and may not find a suitable replacement if HCS terminates the advisory agreement or such key personnel are no longer available to us. Pursuant to the advisory agreement, subject to oversight by our Board of Directors, HCS advises the Managed Subsidiaries. HCS identifies, evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors investments of the Managed Subsidiaries, other than assets that we contributed to the Managed Subsidiaries to facilitate compliance with our exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. The departure of any of the senior officers of HCS, or of a significant number of investment professionals or principals of HCS, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We are subject to the risk that HCS will terminate the advisory agreement or that we may deem it necessary to terminate the advisory agreement or prevent certain individuals from performing services for us, and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage the Managed Subsidiaries. Pursuant to the advisory agreement, HCS is entitled to receive an advisory fee payable regardless of the performance of the assets of the Managed Subsidiaries. We will pay HCS substantial advisory fees, based on the Managed Subsidiaries’ equity capital (as defined in the advisory agreement), regardless of the performance of the Managed Subsidiaries’ portfolio. In addition, pursuant to the advisory agreement, we will pay HCS a base advisory fee even if they are not managing any assets of the Managed Subsidiaries' portfolio. HCS’s entitlement to non-performance based compensation may reduce its incentive to devote the time and effort of its professionals to seeking profitable opportunities for the Managed Subsidiaries’ portfolio, which could result in a lower performance of their portfolio and negatively affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or to achieve capital appreciation. Pursuant to the advisory agreement, HCS is entitled to receive an incentive fee, which may induce it to make certain investments, including speculative or high risk investments. In addition to its advisory fee, HCS is entitled to receive incentive compensation based, in part, upon the Managed Subsidiaries’ achievement of targeted levels of net income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead HCS to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining liquidity and/or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. In addition, HCS has broad discretion regarding the types of investments it will make pursuant to the advisory agreement. This could result in increased risk to the value of the Managed Subsidiaries’ invested portfolio. 27 Table of Contents We compete with HCS’s other clients for access to HCS. HCS has sponsored and/or currently manages other pools of capital and investment vehicles with an investment focus that overlaps with the Managed Subsidiaries’ investment focus, and is expected to continue to do so in the future. Furthermore, HCS is not restricted in any way from sponsoring or accepting capital from new clients or vehicles, even for investing in asset classes or investment strategies that are similar to, or overlapping with, the Managed Subsidiaries’ asset classes or investment strategies. Therefore, the Managed Subsidiaries compete for access to the benefits that their relationship with HCS provides them. For the same reasons, the personnel of HCS may be unable to dedicate a substantial portion of their time managing the Managed Subsidiaries’ investments if HCS manages any future investment vehicles. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with HCS, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. The Managed Subsidiaries may have or pursue investments in securities in which HCS has or is seeking an interest. Similarly, HCS may invest in securities in which the Managed Subsidiaries have or may have an interest. Although such investments may present conflicts of interest, we nonetheless may pursue and consummate such transactions. Additionally, the Managed Subsidiaries may engage in transactions directly with HCS, including the purchase and sale of all or a portion of a portfolio investment. HCS may from time to time simultaneously seek to purchase investments for the Managed Subsidiaries and other entities with similar investment objectives for which it serves as a manager, or for its clients or affiliates and has no duty to allocate such investment opportunities in a manner that favors the Managed Subsidiaries. Additionally, such investments for entities with similar investment objectives may be different from those made on the Managed Subsidiaries’ behalf. HCS may have economic interests in or other relationships with others in whose obligations or securities the Managed Subsidiaries may invest. Each of such ownership and other relationships may result in securities laws restrictions on transactions in such securities and otherwise create conflicts of interest. In such instances, HCS may in its discretion make investment recommendations and decisions that may be the same as or different from those made with respect to the Managed Subsidiaries’ investments and may take actions (or omit to take actions) in the context of these other economic interests or relationships the consequences of which may be adverse to the Managed Subsidiaries’ interests. Although the officers and employees of HCS devote as much time to the Managed Subsidiaries as HCS deems appropriate, the officers and employees may have conflicts in allocating their time and services among the Managed Subsidiaries and HCS’s and its affiliates' other accounts. In addition, HCS and its affiliates, in connection with their other business activities, may acquire material non-public confidential information that may restrict HCS from purchasing securities or selling securities for itself or its clients (including the Managed Subsidiaries) or otherwise using such information for the benefit of its clients or itself. HCS and JMP Group, Inc. beneficially owned approximately 16.8% and 12.2%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. HCS is an investment adviser that manages investments and trading accounts of other persons, including certain accounts affiliated with JMP Group, Inc., and is deemed the beneficial owner of shares of our common stock held by these accounts. James J. Fowler, the Non-Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors and also the non-compensated chief investment officer of the Managed Subsidiaries, is a managing director of HCS. HCS is an affiliate of JMP Group, Inc. Joseph A. Jolson, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of JMP Group Inc. and HCS, beneficially owned approximately 9.5% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of December 3, 2008. In addition, in November 2008, our Board of Directors approved an exemption from the ownership limitations contained in our Charter, to permit Mr. Jolson to beneficially own up to 25% of the aggregate value of our outstanding capital stock. As a result of the combined voting power of HCS, JMP Group, Inc. and Mr. Jolson, these stockholders exert significant influence over matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of a change in control or business combination of our company. This concentration of ownership may result in decisions affecting us that are not in the best interests of all our stockholders. In addition, Mr. Fowler may have a conflict of interest in situations where the best interests of our company and stockholders do not align with the interests of HCS, JMP Group, Inc. or its affiliates, which may result in decisions that are not in the best interests of all our stockholders. 28 Table of Contents Termination of the advisory agreement may be difficult and costly. Termination of the advisory agreement without cause is subject to several conditions which may make such a termination difficult and costly. The advisory agreement provides that it may only be terminated without cause following the initial three year period upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, based either upon unsatisfactory performance by HCS that is materially detrimental to us or upon a determination that the management fee payable to HCS is not fair, subject to HCS’s right to prevent such a termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees. HCS will be paid a termination fee equal to the amount of two times the sum of the average annual base advisory fee and the average annual incentive compensation earned by it during the 24-month period immediately preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the advisory agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate HCS without cause. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Capital Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include, among other things: actual or anticipated changes in our current or future financial performance; changes in market interest rates and general market and economic conditions. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. No active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock currently exists and one may not develop in the future. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock were issued in a private placement transaction pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are not listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or any other market. Furthermore, even if the Series A Preferred Stock is accepted for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market or another securities exchange, an active trading market may not develop and the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock may be volatile. As a result, an investor in our Series A Preferred Stock may be unable to sell his/her shares of Series A Preferred Stock at a price equal to or greater than that which the investor paid, if at all. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to common or preferred stockholders in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our common stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Internal Revenue Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risk factors described herein. From July 2007 until April 2008, our Board of Directors elected to suspend the payment of quarterly dividends on our common stock. Our Board’s decision reflected our focus on the elimination of operating losses through the sale of our mortgage lending business and the conservation of capital to build future earnings from our portfolio management operations. All distributions to our common stockholders will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. In addition, in the event that we do not have legally available funds, or any of our financing agreements in the future restrict our ability, to pay cash dividends on shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, we will be unable to pay cash dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, unless, in the case of restrictions imposed by our financing agreements, we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements. Although the dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock would continue to accrue, we may pay dividends on shares of our Series A Preferred Stock only if we have legally available funds for such payment. 29 Table of Contents Upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, we will be required to issue shares of common stock to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, which will dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock. Our outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock are senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend and liquidation distributions and have voting rights equal to those of our common stock. On January 18, 2008, we completed the issuance and sale of 1.0 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock to the JMP Group for an aggregate purchase price of $20.0 million. The Series A Preferred Stock entitles the holders to receive a cumulative dividend of 10% per year, subject to an increase to the extent any future quarterly common stock dividends exceed $0.20 per share. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have dividend and liquidating distribution preferences over holders of our common stock, which may negatively affect a Series A Preferred Stockholder’s ability to receive dividends or liquidating distributions on his or her shares. The Series A Preferred Stock also has voting rights equal to the voting rights attached to our common stock, except that each share of Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to a number of votes equal to the conversion rate for the Series A Preferred Stock. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock based on a conversion price of $8.00 per share of common stock, which represents a conversion rate of two and one-half (2 ½) shares of common stock for each share of Series A Preferred Stock. Upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, we will issue common stock to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, which will dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock represents approximately 21% of our outstanding capital stock, on a fully diluted basis, as of March 1, 2009. Therefore, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have voting control over us. The Series A Preferred Stock represents approximately 21% of our outstanding capital stock, on a fully diluted basis, as of March 1, 2009. The Series A Preferred Stock also has voting rights equal to the voting rights attached to our common stock, except that each share of Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to a number of votes equal to the conversion rate. Therefore, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have voting control over us, which may limit your ability to effect corporate change through the shareholder voting process. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock and preferred stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our preferred stock and common stock, with holders of our preferred stock having priority over holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our Series A Preferred Stock has a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock, and any preferred stock issued by us in the future could have similar terms. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. We may not be able to pay the redemption price of our Series A Preferred Stock on the redemption date. We have an obligation to redeem any remaining outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock on or about December 31, 2010, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the $20.00 per share liquidation preference, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. We may be unable to finance the redemption on favorable terms, or at all. Consequently, we may not have sufficient cash to purchase the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. We may not issue preferred stock that is senior to the Series A Preferred Stock without the consent of the holders of 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock, which limits the flexibility of our capital structure. As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, we may not issue preferred stock that is senior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights without the consent of the holders of 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. This limitation restricts the flexibility of our capital structure and may prevent us from issuing equity that would otherwise be in the best interests of our company and common stockholders. 30 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our common stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. For example, upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, we will be required to issue shares of our common stock to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, which will increase the number of shares available for sale and dilute existing holders of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Risks Related to Our Company, Structure and Change in Control Provisions Our directors have approved broad investment guidelines for us and do not approve each investment we make. Our Board of Directors has given us substantial discretion to invest in accordance with our broad investment guidelines. Our Board of Directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our portfolio. However, our Board of Directors does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our directors rely primarily on information provided to them by our executive officers and HCS. Furthermore, transactions entered into by us may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our directors. Our management and HCS have substantial discretion within our broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets we may decide are proper investments for us. We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are a small company and are dependent upon the efforts of certain key individuals, including James J. Fowler, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and Steven R. Mumma, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any key personnel or their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our Chief Executive Officer has an agreement with us that provides him with benefits in the event his employment is terminated following a change in control. We have entered into an agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, Steven R. Mumma, that provides him with severance benefits if his employment ends under specified circumstances following a change in control. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of us and thereby prevent or discourage a change in control that might involve a premium price for your shares or otherwise be in your best interest. The stock ownership limit imposed by our charter may inhibit market activity in our common stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). This test is known as the “5/50 test.” Attribution rules in the Internal Revenue Code apply to determine if any individual or entity actually or constructively owns our capital stock for purposes of this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of each taxable year (other than our first year as a REIT). To help ensure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and provides that, unless exempted by our Board of Directors, no person may own more than 9.9% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. The ownership limit contained in our charter could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price for our common stock or would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 31 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors may grant an exemption from that ownership limit in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. In November 2008, our Board of Directors granted an exemption from the ownership limit to permit Joseph A. Jolson, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of JMP Group, Inc., to beneficially own up to 25% of the aggregate value of our outstanding capital stock. Because all other individuals who own our stock are permitted to own up to 9.9% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, it is possible that four other individuals acquired between November 2008 and December 31, 2008, or could acquire during the last half of a taxable year, a sufficient amount of our stock to cause us to violate the 5/50 rule. In connection with the ownership waiver granted by us to Mr. Jolson, we intend to submit a proposal to our stockholders to amend our charter to reduce the 9.9% ownership limit to a percentage that will allow us to satisfy the 5/50 test with no uncertainty while also accommodating the exemption applicable to Mr. Jolson. Although we believe that we satisfy and will continue to satisfy the 5/50 test, there can be no assurance that our stockholders will approve an amendment to the charter reducing the 9.9% ownership limit prior to July 1, 2009 or that, absent such approval, we will continue to satisfy the 5/50 test on and after July 1, 2009. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control which could have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control. These provisions include the following, among others: · our charter provides that, subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, a director may be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors; · our bylaws provide that only our Board of Directors shall have the authority to amend our bylaws; · under our charter, our Board of Directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time, in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series, all without the approval of our stockholders; · the Maryland Business Combination Act; and · the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Although our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from application of the Maryland Business Combination Act and our bylaws provide that we are not subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, our Board of Directors may elect to make the “business combination” statute and “control share” statute applicable to us at any time and may do so without stockholder approval. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We have conducted and intend to continue to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We believe that there are a number of exemptions under the Investment Company Act that are applicable to us. To maintain the exemption, the assets that we acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and the market price for our securities. Tax Risks Related to Our Structure Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and ability to make distributions. We have operated and intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income, and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. In order to satisfy these requirements, we might have to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. Moreover, while we intend to continue to operate so to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, there can be no assurance that we will so qualify in any taxable year. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Our payment of income tax would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to qualify as a REIT and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under the federal income tax laws, we generally would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost our REIT status. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we distribute at least 90%, but less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary REIT income for that year, (ii) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year, and (iii) 100% of our undistributed REIT taxable income from prior years. We have made and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Certain of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between REIT taxable income and available cash. Such assets could include mortgage-backed securities we hold that have been issued at a discount and require the accrual of taxable income in advance of the receipt of cash. As a result, our taxable income may exceed our cash available for distribution and the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: · sell assets in adverse market conditions, · borrow on unfavorable terms or · distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Further, our lenders could require us to enter into negative covenants, including restrictions on our ability to distribute funds or to employ leverage, which could inhibit our ability to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable to domestic shareholders that are individuals, trust and estates is 15% (through 2008). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rate applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge the RMBS in our investment portfolio. Our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. Any hedging income earned by a TRS would be subject to federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. 33 Table of Contents A decline in the value of the real estate securing the mortgage loans that back RMBS could cause a portion of our income from such securities to be nonqualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Pools of mortgage loans back the RMBS that we hold in our investment portfolio and in which we invest. In general, the interest income from a mortgage loan is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test applicable to REITs to the extent that the mortgage loan is secured by real property. If a mortgage loan has a loan-to-value ratio greater than 100%, however, then only a proportionate part of the interest income is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test and only a proportionate part of the value of the loan is treated as a “real estate asset” for purposes of the 75% asset test applicable to REITs. This loan-to-value ratio is generally measured at the time that the REIT commits to acquire the loan. Although the IRS has ruled generally that the interest income from non-collateralized mortgage obligation (“CMO”) RMBS is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, it is not entirely clear how this guidance would apply if we purchase non-CMO RMBS in the secondary market at a time when the loan-to-value ratio of one or more of the mortgage loans backing the non-CMO RMBS is greater than 100%, and, accordingly, a portion of any income from such non-CMO RMBS may be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. In addition, that guidance does not apply to CMO RMBS. In the case of CMO MBS, if less than 95% of the assets of the issuer of the CMO RMBS constitute “real estate assets,” then only a proportionate part of our income derived from the CMO RMBS will qualify for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Although the law is not clear, the IRS may take the position that the determination of the loan-to-value ratio for mortgage loans that back CMO RMBS is to be made on a quarterly basis. A decline in the value of the real estate securing the mortgage loans that back our CMO RMBS could cause a portion of the interest income from those RMBS to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. If such non-qualifying income caused us to fail the 75% gross income test and we did not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 