ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. However, these are the risks our management believes are material. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Company A downgrade of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of any of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our business and prospects and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. Financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The objective of these ratings is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. Ratings reflect the rating agencies’ opinions of our financial strength, and are neither evaluations directed to investors in our common shares nor recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares. 39 As of the date of this Form 10-K, our insurance company subsidiaries have been assigned the following insurance financial strength ratings: Moody’s S&P Fitch AGC Aa1(Excellent) AAA(Extremely Strong) AAA(Extremely Strong) AG Re Aa2(Excellent) AA(Very Strong) AA(Very Strong) AGRO Aa2(Excellent) AA(Very Strong) AA(Very Strong) Assured Guaranty Mortgage Aa2(Excellent) AA(Very Strong) AA(Very Strong) Assured Guaranty (UK) Ltd Aa1(Excellent) AAA(Extremely Strong) AAA(Extremely Strong) “Aa1” (Excellent) is the second highest ranking and “Aa2” (Excellent) is the third highest ranking of 21 ratings categories used by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”). A “AAA” (Extremely Strong) rating is the highest ranking and “AA” (Very Strong) is the third highest ranking of the 21 ratings categories used by Standard & Poor’s Inc. (“S&P”). “AAA” (Extremely Strong) is the highest ranking and “AA” (Very Strong) is the third highest ranking of the 24 ratings categories used by Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”). An insurance financial strength rating is an opinion with respect to an insurer’s ability to pay under its insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms. The opinion is not specific to any particular policy or contract. Insurance financial strength ratings do not refer to an insurer’s ability to meet non insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by an insurer or to buy, hold, or sell any security issued by an insurer, including our common shares. The major rating agencies have developed and published rating guidelines for rating financial guaranty and mortgage guaranty insurers and reinsurers. The insurance financial strength ratings assigned by S&P, Moody’s and Fitch are based upon factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors in our common shares. The rating criteria used by the rating agencies in establishing these ratings include consideration of the sufficiency of capital resources to meet projected growth (as well as access to such additional capital as may be necessary to continue to meet applicable capital adequacy standards), the company’s overall financial strength, and demonstrated management expertise in financial guaranty and traditional reinsurance, credit analysis, systems development, marketing, capital markets and investment operations. Obligations insured by AGC generally are rated Aa1, AAA and AAA by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch, respectively, by virtue of such insurance. These ratings reflect only the views of the respective rating agencies and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. The rating agencies grant credit to primary companies in their calculations of required capital and single risk limits for reinsurance ceded. The amount of credit is a function of the financial strength rating of the reinsurer. For example, S&P has established the following reinsurance credit for business ceded to a monoline reinsurer, including AG Re and AGRO: Monoline Reinsurer Rating Ceding Company Rating AAA AA A BBB AAA 100 % 70 % 50 % n/ a AA 100 % 75 % 70 % 50 % A 100 % 80 % 75 % 70 % Below A: Not applicable. For reinsurance ceded to a multiline reinsurer, S&P has re-examined its methodology for the determination of reinsurance credit. In the course of its examination, S&P considered the effect of having both monoline and multiline companies in the industry, determining that multiline reinsurers had not demonstrated sufficient commitment to participation in the industry and occasionally had handled claims for financial guaranty reinsurance as they handle claims in their other business lines. S&P therefore determined that no rating agency reinsurance credit would be accorded cessions to multiline reinsurance 40 companies that had not demonstrated their willingness and ability to make timely payment, which willingness and ability is measured by a financial enhancement rating (“FER”) from S&P. A financial enhancement rating reflects not only an insurer’s perceived ability to pay claims, but also its perceived willingness to pay claims. FERs are assigned by S&P to multiline insurers requesting the rating who meet stringent criteria identifying the company’s capacity and willingness to pay claims on a timely basis. S&P has established the following reinsurance credit for business ceded to a multiline reinsurer carrying an FER: Multiline Reinsurer Rating Ceding Company Rating AAA AA A BBB AAA 95 % 65 % 45 % n/ a AA 95 % 70 % 65 % 45 % A 95 % 75 % 70 % 65 % Below A: Not applicable. The ratings of AGRO, Assured Guaranty Mortgage and Assured Guaranty (UK) Ltd. are dependent upon support in the form of keepwell agreements. AG Re provides a keepwell to its subsidiary, AGRO. AGRO provides a keepwell to its subsidiary, Assured Guaranty Mortgage. AGC provides a keepwell to its subsidiary, Assured Guaranty (UK) Ltd. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, each of AG Re, AGRO and AGC agrees to provide funds to their respective subsidiaries sufficient for those subsidiaries to meet their obligations. The ratings assigned by S&P, Moody’s and Fitch to our insurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic review and may be downgraded by one or more of the rating agencies as a result of changes in the views of the rating agencies or adverse developments in our subsidiaries’ financial conditions or results of operations due to underwriting or investment losses or other factors. As a result, the ratings assigned to our insurance subsidiaries by any of the rating agencies may change at any time. If the ratings of any of our insurance subsidiaries were reduced below current levels by any of the rating agencies, it could have an adverse effect on the affected subsidiary’s competitive position and its prospects for future business opportunities. A downgrade may also reduce the value of the reinsurance we offer, which may no longer be of sufficient economic value for our customers to continue to cede to our subsidiaries at economically viable rates. With respect to a significant portion of our in-force financial guaranty reinsurance business, in the event of certain downgrades, the ceding company has the right to recapture business ceded to the affected subsidiary and assets representing substantially all of the statutory unearned premium and loss reserves (if any) associated with that business, with a corresponding negative impact to earnings, which could be significant. Alternatively, the ceding company can increase the commissions it charges us for cessions. Any such increase may be retroactive to the date of the cession, requiring the affected subsidiary to refund a portion of related premium previously earned, with a corresponding negative impact to earnings, which could be significant. In the event of a downgrade of any of our subsidiaries that write or insure exposures relating to contracts that allow for the use of derivative instruments to transfer credit risk, or credit derivatives, a downgrade below negotiated levels may allow a counterparty to terminate its agreements, resulting in the possible payment of a settlement amount. A downgrade also will increase the possibility that we may have to pledge collateral for the benefit of a counterparty. A downgrade may also negatively impact the affected company’s ability to write new business or negotiate favorable terms on new business. 41 Our success depends on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy. Our strategy is to focus on two core businesses: (1) financial guaranty direct insurance and (2) financial guaranty reinsurance. The fact that AGC, through which we write financial guaranty insurance, carries a triple-A rating from S&P and Fitch, but not from Moody’s, places it at a competitive disadvantage against companies rated triple-A by S&P, Fitch and Moody’s. The absence of a triple-A rating from Moody’s may adversely affect the desirability of our financial guaranty insurance, and in fact may preclude us from successfully marketing our financial guaranty insurance in certain markets. Furthermore, while we have a substantial in-force book of financial guaranty direct business, the majority of that exposure was written in the credit derivatives market rather than in the more traditional third party financial guaranty insurance market. We may not be able to successfully expand relationships with issuers, servicers and other parties that are necessary to generate business in the traditional financial guaranty insurance market. We are dependent on a small number of ceding companies to provide us with a substantial part of our reinsurance business. We have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from financial guaranty reinsurance premiums. A significant reduction in the amount of reinsurance ceded by one or more of our principal ceding companies would have an adverse effect upon our reinsurance business. A number of factors could cause such a reduction, such as, reluctance among our principal ceding companies to cede business to us as a result of competition with them in the direct financial guaranty business. In addition, primary insurers may retain higher levels of risk than in the past. Also, the volume of municipal bond and structured securities new issuances, together with the levels of and changes in interest rates and investor demand, may significantly affect the new business activities of primary financial guaranty insurers and, consequently, their use of reinsurance. Additionally, our ability to receive profitable pricing for our reinsurance depends largely on prices charged by the primary insurers for their insurance coverage and the amount of ceding commissions paid by us to these primary insurers. General economic factors, including fluctuations in interest rates and housing prices, may adversely affect our loss experience and the demand for our products. Our business, and the risks associated with our business, depend in large measure on general economic conditions and capital markets activity. Our loss experience could be materially adversely affected by extended national or regional economic recessions, business failures, rising unemployment rates, interest rate changes or volatility, changes in investor perceptions regarding the strength of financial guaranty providers and the policies or guaranties offered by such providers, investor concern over the credit quality of municipalities or corporations, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or combinations of such factors. These events could also materially decrease demand for financial guaranty insurance. In addition to exposure to general economic factors, we are exposed to the specific risks faced by the particular businesses, municipalities or pools of assets covered by our financial guaranty products. Prevailing interest rate levels affect capital markets activity which in turn affects demand for financial guaranty insurance. Higher interest rates may result in declines in new issue and refunding volume which may reduce demand for our financial guaranty products. Lower interest rates generally are accompanied by narrower interest rate spreads between insured and uninsured obligations. The purchase of insurance during periods of narrower interest rate spreads generally will provide lower cost savings to the issuer than during periods of wider spreads. These lower cost savings could be accompanied by a corresponding decrease in demand for financial guaranty insurance. However, the increased level of refundings during periods of lower interest rates historically has increased the demand for insurance. 42 Under the standard mortgage insurance policies that we reinsure, a default on the underlying mortgage generally will give the insurer the option to pay the entire loss amount and take title to the mortgaged property or pay the coverage percentage in full satisfaction of its obligations under the policy. Due to a strong housing market in recent years, insurers have been able to take advantage of paying the entire loss amount and selling properties quickly. If housing values depreciate or fail to appreciate, the primary insurers’ ability to recover amounts paid on defaulted mortgages may be reduced or delayed, which in turn may lead to increased losses under our related reinsurance contracts and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations or our financial condition in general. If claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be significantly adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately and manage the potential loss associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, based on estimates involving statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims on the policies we write. We use statistical models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns as estimates of future trends in claims severity, frequency and other factors to establish our estimate of loss reserves. Establishing loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps materially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements. If our loss reserves at any time are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, or possibly an operating loss and reduction of capital. Adverse selection by ceding companies may adversely affect our financial results. A portion of our reinsurance business is written under treaties, which generally give the ceding company some ability to select the risks ceded to us as long as they are covered by the terms of the treaty. There is a risk under these treaties that the ceding companies will adversely select the risks ceded to us by ceding those exposures that have higher rating agency capital charges or that the ceding companies expect to be less profitable. We attempt to mitigate this risk in a number of ways, including requiring ceding companies to retain a minimum amount, which varies by treaty, of the ceded business. If we are unsuccessful in mitigating this risk, our financial results may be adversely affected. Our financial guaranty products may subject us to significant risks from individual or correlated credits. We could be exposed to corporate credit risk if the credit’s securities are contained in a portfolio of collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”) we insure, or if it is the originator or servicer of loans or other assets backing structured securities that we have insured. A CDO is a debt security backed by a pool of debt obligations. While we track our aggregate exposure to single names in our various lines of business and have established underwriting criteria to manage risk aggregations, there can be no assurance that our ultimate exposure to a single name will not exceed our underwriting guidelines, or that an event with respect to a single name will not cause a significant loss. In addition, because we insure or reinsure municipal bonds, we can have significant exposures to single municipal risks. While the risk of a complete loss, where we pay the entire principal amount of an issue of bonds and interest thereon with no recovery, is generally lower than for corporate credits as most municipal bonds are backed by tax or other revenues, there can be no assurance that a single default by a municipality would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 43 Some of our direct financial guaranty products may be riskier than traditional financial guaranty insurance. A substantial portion of our financial guaranty direct exposures have been assumed as credit derivatives. Traditional financial guaranty insurance provides an unconditional and irrevocable guaranty that protects the holder of a municipal finance or structured finance obligation against non payment of principal and interest, while credit derivatives provide protection from the occurrence of specified credit events, including non payment of principal and interest. In general, the Company structures derivative transactions such that the method for making loss payments is similar to that for traditional financial guaranty policies or only occurs as losses are realized on the underlying reference obligation. Nonetheless, credit derivative transactions are governed by ISDA documentation and may operate differently from traditional financial guaranty policies with respect to loss payments control rights. Competition in our industry may adversely affect our revenues. We face significant competition in our business, and our revenues and profitability could decline as a result of competition. The financial guaranty industry is highly competitive. The principal sources of direct and indirect competition are other financial guaranty insurance companies, most of which have greater financial resources and superior financial strength ratings than we do. We also face competition from other forms of credit enhancement, including structural enhancement incorporated in structured and other obligations and letters of credit, guaranties and credit derivatives provided primarily by foreign and domestic banks and other financial institutions, some of which are governmental enterprises or have been assigned the highest ratings awarded by one or more of the major rating agencies. There are also a relatively limited number of financial guaranty reinsurance companies. As a result, the industry is particularly vulnerable to swings in capacity based on the entry or exit of one or a small number of financial guaranty reinsurers. New entrants into the financial guaranty industry could have an adverse effect on our prospects either by furthering price competition or by reducing the aggregate demand for our reinsurance as a result of additional insurance capacity. The most significant barriers to entry for new financial guaranty competitors are rating agency requirements and regulatory capital requirements. New entrants or additional reinsurance capacity would likely have an adverse effect on our business. With respect to mortgage guaranty reinsurance, we compete with a number of other reinsurance companies as well as with alternatives to reinsurance, including risk sharing arrangements with affiliates of the mortgage insurers and lender owned captives. Many of these competitors have greater experience and relationships in these markets. We are dependent on key executives and the loss of any of these executives, or our inability to retain other key personnel, could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. Although we are not aware of any planned departures, we rely substantially upon the services of Dominic J. Frederico, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executives. Although Mr. Frederico and certain other executives have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain their services. The loss of the services of either of these individuals or other key members of our management team could adversely affect the implementation of our business strategy. 44 Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Our location in Bermuda may serve as an impediment to attracting and retaining experienced personnel. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, other than spouses of Bermudians and individuals holding permanent resident certificates or working resident certificates, are not permitted to engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a work permit issued by the Bermuda government. A work permit is only granted or extended if the employer can show that, after a proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian or individual holding a permanent resident certificate or working resident certificates is available who meets the minimum standards for the position. The Bermuda government’s policy places a six year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to specified exemptions for persons deemed to be key employees. All of our Bermuda based employees who require work permits have been granted permits by the Bermuda government, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary, Chief Accounting Officer, Chief Credit Officer and Chief Surveillance Officer. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of our key employees if we are unable to obtain or renew their work permits. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes affecting the performance of our investment portfolio. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income. For example, if interest rates decline, funds reinvested will earn less than expected. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates will reduce the value of these securities, resulting in unrealized losses that we are required to include in shareholder’s equity as a change in accumulated other comprehensive income. Accordingly, interest rate increases could reduce our shareholder’s equity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Valuation of Investments.” In addition, our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2006, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 29% of our invested assets. As with other fixed maturity investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to significant prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at then-current market rates. During periods of rising interest rates, the frequency of prepayments generally decreases. Mortgage-backed securities having an amortized value less than par (i.e., purchased at a discount) may incur a decrease in yield or a loss as a result of slower prepayment. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We do not engage in active management, or hedging, of interest rate risk, and may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. The performance of our invested assets affects our results of operations and cash flows. Income from our investment portfolio is one of the primary sources of cash flows supporting our operations and claim payments. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our net investment income was $111.5 million, $96.8 million and $94.8 million, respectively, in each case exclusive of net realized gains (losses) and unrealized gains (losses) on investments. If our calculations with respect to our policy liabilities are incorrect, or if we improperly structure our investments to meet these liabilities, we could have unexpected losses, including losses resulting from forced liquidation of investments before 45 their maturity. The investment policies of our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance law requirements, and may change depending upon regulatory, economic and market conditions and the existing or anticipated financial condition and operating requirements, including the tax position, of our businesses. We have retained BlackRock Financial Management (“BlackRock”) to manage our investment portfolio. The performance of our invested assets is subject to their performance in selecting and managing appropriate investments. BlackRock has discretionary authority over our investment portfolio within the limits of our investment guidelines. Our net income may be volatile because a portion of the credit risk we assume is in the form of credit derivatives that are accounted for under FAS 133, which requires that these instruments be marked-to-market quarterly. Any event causing credit spreads (i.e., the difference in interest rates between comparable securities having different credit risk) on an underlying security referenced in a credit derivative in our portfolio either to widen or to tighten will affect the fair value of the credit derivative and may increase the volatility of our earnings. Derivatives must be accounted for either as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair market value. Although there is no cash flow effect from this “marking to market,” net changes in the fair market value of the derivative are reported in our statement of operations and therefore will affect our reported earnings. If the derivative is held to maturity and no credit loss is incurred, any gains or losses previously reported would be offset by corresponding gains or losses at maturity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Valuation of Derivative Financial Instruments.” Common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying municipal or corporate security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate include changes in the state of national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, changes to a company’s competitive position within an industry, management changes, changes in the ratings of the underlying security, movements in interest rates, default or failure to pay interest, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the issuer’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations. Similarly, common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying structured security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate may include the occurrence and severity of collateral defaults, changes in demographic trends and their impact on the levels of credit enhancement, rating changes, changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the risk of the collateral or the ability of the servicer to collect payments on the underlying assets sufficient to pay principal and interest. An increase in our subsidiaries’ risk-to-capital ratio or leverage ratio may prevent them from writing new insurance. Rating agencies and insurance regulatory authorities impose capital requirements on our insurance subsidiaries. These capital requirements, which include risk-to-capital ratios, leverage ratios and surplus requirements, limit the amount of insurance that our subsidiaries may write. Our insurance subsidiaries have several alternatives available to control their risk-to-capital ratios and leverage ratios, including obtaining capital contributions from us, purchasing reinsurance or entering into other loss mitigation agreements, or reducing the amount of new business written. However, a material reduction in the statutory capital and surplus of a subsidiary, whether resulting from underwriting or investment losses or otherwise, or a disproportionate increase in the amount of risk in force, could increase a subsidiary’s risk-to-capital ratio or leverage ratio. This in turn could require that subsidiary to obtain reinsurance for existing business (which may not be available, or may be available on terms that we consider unfavorable), or add to its capital base to maintain its financial strength ratings. Failure to maintain such ratings could limit that subsidiary’s ability to write new business. 46 We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including our in-force book of business and rating agency capital requirements. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our shareholders and the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common shares. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. Adequate soft capital support may not be available. Financial guaranty insurers and reinsurers typically rely on providers of lines of credit, credit swap facilities and similar capital support mechanisms (often referred to as “soft capital”) to supplement their “hard capital.” The ratings of soft capital providers directly affect the level of capital credit which the rating agencies attribute to the financial guaranty insurer or reinsurer when rating its financial strength. We intend to maintain soft capital facilities with providers having ratings adequate to provide the desired capital credit, although no assurance can be given that one or more of the rating agencies will not downgrade or withdraw the applicable ratings of such providers in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that an acceptable replacement provider would be available in that event. We may require additional liquidity in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. We require liquidity in order to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our common shares, and to make capital investments in our operating subsidiaries. We anticipate that our need for liquidity will be met by (1) the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us, (2) external financings and (3) investment income from our invested assets. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to legal and rating agency restrictions on their ability to pay dividends and make other permitted payments, and external financing may or may not be available to us in the future on satisfactory terms. Our other subsidiaries are subject to legal restrictions on their ability to pay dividends and distributions. See “Business—Regulation.” While we believe that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next 12 months, there can be no assurance that adverse market conditions, changes in insurance regulatory law or changes in general economic condition that adversely affect our liquidity will not occur. Similarly, there can be no assurance that adequate liquidity will be available to us on favorable terms in the future. Liquidity at our operating subsidiaries is used to pay operating expenses, claims, payment obligation with respect to credit derivatives, reinsurance premiums and dividends to Assured Guaranty US Holding for debt service and dividends to us, as well as, where appropriate, to make capital investments in their own subsidiaries. While we believe that the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries will be sufficient to meet their needs, we cannot assure you that this will be the case, nor can we assure you that existing liquidity facilities will prove adequate to their needs, or be available to them on favorable terms in the future. Changes in tax laws could reduce the demand or profitability of financial guaranty insurance, or negatively impact our investment portfolio. Any material change in the U.S. tax treatment of municipal securities, the imposition of a “flat tax,” the imposition of a national sales tax in lieu of the current federal income tax structure in the United States, or changes in the treatment of dividends, could adversely affect the market for municipal 47 obligations and, consequently, reduce the demand for financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of such obligations. Changes in U.S. federal, state or local laws that materially adversely affect the tax treatment of municipal securities or the market for those securities, or other changes negatively affecting the municipal securities market, also may adversely impact our investment portfolio, a significant portion of which is invested in tax-exempt instruments. These adverse changes may adversely affect the value of our tax-exempt portfolio, or its liquidity. Legislative and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our business. Changes in laws and regulations affecting insurance companies, the municipal and structured securities markets, the financial guaranty and mortgage guaranty insurance and reinsurance markets and the credit derivatives markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may subject us to additional legal liability, or affect the demand for the products that we provide. For example, recent uncertainty regarding the accounting for structured securities significantly, though temporarily, reduced new issuances of certain types of structured securities. Our ability to meet our obligations may be constrained by our holding company structure. Assured Guaranty is a holding company and, as such, has no direct operations of its own. We do not expect to have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory and rating agency restrictions limiting their ability to declare and to pay dividends and make other payments to us. In addition, to the extent that dividends are paid from our U.S. subsidiaries, they presently would be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends and make other permitted payments to us would have an adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our ongoing cash requirements and on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If we do not pay dividends, the only return on your investment in our Company, if at all, would come from any appreciation in the price of our common shares. For more information regarding these limitations, see “Business—Regulation.” Our ability to pay dividends may be constrained by certain regulatory requirements and restrictions. We are subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares and to make other payments. Under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended (the “Companies Act”), we may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only (1) if we have reasonable grounds for believing that we are, and after the payment would be, able to pay our liabilities as they become due and (2) if the realizable value of our assets would not be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. While we currently intend to pay dividends, if you require dividend income you should carefully consider these risks before investing in our company. For more information regarding restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, see “Business—Regulation.” There are provisions in our Bye-Laws that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our common shares. If, and so long as, the common shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” (as determined under section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) of any U.S. Person (as defined in “Tax Matters—Taxation of Shareholders”) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the 48 controlled shares of such U.S. Person (a “9.5% U.S. Shareholder”) shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our Bye-Laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, our Board of Directors may limit a shareholder’s voting rights where it deems appropriate to do so to (1) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholders, and (2) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any of our subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares of Assured Guaranty that such U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Our Bye-Laws provide that shareholders will be notified of their voting interests prior to any vote taken by them. As a result of any reallocation of votes, your voting rights might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding common shares, thereby possibly resulting in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, the reallocation of your votes could result in your becoming subject to the short swing profit recovery and filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We also have the authority under our Bye-Laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the Bye-Laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request by us, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate such shareholder’s voting rights. There are provisions in our Bye-Laws that may restrict the ability to transfer common shares, and that may require shareholders to sell their common shares. Our Board of Directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of any common shares (1) if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our Bye-Laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders may occur as a result of such transfer (other than such as the Board of Directors considers to be de minimis), or (2) subject to any applicable requirements of or commitments to the New York Stock Exchange, if a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws has not been provided or if any required governmental approvals have not been obtained. Our Bye-Laws also provide that if our Board of Directors determines that share ownership by a person may result in adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders (other than such as the Board of Directors considers to be de minimis), then we have the option, but not the obligation, to require that shareholder to sell to us or to third parties to whom we assign the repurchase right for fair market value the minimum number of common shares held by such person which is necessary to eliminate such adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences. See “Description of Share Capital.” Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of the Company. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. See “Regulation—Change of Control.” Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common shares would 49 indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our U.S. insurance company subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of Maryland and New York would likely apply to such a transaction. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. While our Bye-Laws limit the voting power of any shareholder (other than ACE) to less than 10%, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned 10% or more of our common shares did not, notwithstanding the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable insurance company subsidiary. Some reinsurance agreement terms may make it difficult to effect a change of control of the Company Some of our reinsurance agreements have change of control provisions that are triggered if a third party acquires a designated percentage of our shares. If these change of control provisions are triggered, the ceding company may recapture some or all of the reinsurance business ceded to us in the past. Any such recapture could adversely affect our future income or ratings. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. Anti-takeover provisions in our Bye-Laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our Bye-Laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our non-U.S. companies other than AGRO may be subject to U.S. tax. We intend to manage our business so that Assured Guaranty Ltd., AG Re, Assured Guaranty Finance Overseas, and Assured Guaranty (UK) will operate in such a manner that none of them will be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks, and U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not contend successfully that Assured Guaranty or any of our foreign subsidiaries is/are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Assured Guaranty Ltd., AG Re, Assured Guaranty Finance Overseas, or Assured Guaranty (UK) were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, each such company could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business. See “Tax Matters—Taxation of Assured Guaranty and Subsidiaries—United States.” We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and on your investment. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda’s Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, has given Assured Guaranty, AGC, AG Re and AGRO an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on 50 any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then subject to certain limitations the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Assured Guaranty, AGC or our Bermuda subsidiaries, or any of our or their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until 2016. See “Tax Matters—Taxation of Assured Guaranty and Subsidiaries—Bermuda.” Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to Bermuda tax after 2016. U.S. Persons who hold common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we or any of our Subsidiaries are considered to be a Personal Holding Company (“PHC”). Assured Guaranty or a subsidiary might be subject to U.S. tax on a portion of its income (which in the case of a foreign subsidiary would only include income from U.S. sources and foreign source income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business) if Assured Guaranty or such subsidiary is considered a personal holding company (“PHC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status will depend on whether 50% or more of our shares could be deemed to be owned (pursuant to certain constructive ownership rules) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of Assured Guaranty’s income, or the income of any of its subsidiaries, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, consists of “personal holding company income.” We believe that neither Assured Guaranty nor any of its subsidiaries should be considered a PHC. Additionally, we intend to manage our business to minimize the possibility that we will meet the 60% income threshold. However, because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate share ownership (i.e., as determined by the constructive ownership rules for PHCs), we cannot be certain that Assured Guaranty and/or any of its subsidiaries will not be considered a PHC. U.S. Persons who acquire 10% or more of our common shares may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”) rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and who owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. See “Tax Matters—Taxation of Shareholders—United States Taxation.” We believe that because of the dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in our Bye-Laws that limit voting power and other factors, no U.S. Person who owns our common shares directly or indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of us or of any of our foreign subsidiaries. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. U.S. Persons who hold common shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our “related person insurance income” (“RPII”). If the gross RPII of AG Re was to equal or exceed 20% of AG Re’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or indirectly through entities) 20% or more of the voting power or value of our common shares, then a U.S. Person who owns our common shares (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of AG Re’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons at that date, regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by AG Re (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of common shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number 51 of factors, including the geographic distribution of AG Re’s business and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by AG Re. We believe AG Re did not in prior years of operation and will not in the foreseeable future have either RPII income which equals or exceeds 20% of gross insurance income or have direct or indirect insureds, as provided for by RIIP rules, of AG Re (and related persons) directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our common shares. However, we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. U.S. Persons who dispose of our common shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income tax rates in a portion of their gain, if any. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of common shares because we will not ourselves be directly engaged in the insurance business; however, the RPII provisions have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form, what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto, or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of RPII by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to Assured Guaranty and AG Re is uncertain. U.S. Persons who hold common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If Assured Guaranty is considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person who owns any shares of Assured Guaranty will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, which could materially adversely affect your investment. We believe that Assured Guaranty is not, and we currently do not expect Assured Guaranty to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, we cannot assure you that Assured Guaranty will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our common shares. U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, is a PFIC, or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the “subpart F income” of a CFC or RPII are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There currently are no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies, and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or 52 pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when, or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be implemented or made, or whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a “Global Forum,” Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 