Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-K. There may be events in the future that we are unable to predict accurately, or over which we have no control. You should read this Form 10-K and the documents that we reference herein and have been filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may change. We may not update these forward-looking statements, even though our situation may change in the future, unless we have obligations under the federal securities laws to update and disclose material developments related to previously disclosed information. We qualify all of the information presented in this Form 10-K, and particularly our forward-looking statements, by these cautionary statements. Inhibitex®, MSCRAMM®, Veronate®, and Aurexis® are registered trademarks of Inhibitex, Inc. MSCRAMM is an acronym for Microbial Surface Components Recognizing Adhesive Matrix Molecules. 4 Table of Contents Overview We are a biopharmaceutical company committed to the discovery, development and commercialization of novel antibody-based products for the prevention and treatment of serious bacterial and fungal infections. We currently have two product candidates in clinical development and four product candidates in preclinical development. In November 2005, we completed enrollment in a 2,018 patient Phase III clinical trial for our lead product candidate, Veronate, which we are developing for the prevention of certain hospital-associated infections in premature, very low birth weight, or VLBW, infants. We anticipate top-line data from this trial to be available in April 2006. Veronate has been granted Fast Track and Orphan Drug status by the FDA, and in December 2005 was designated as an Orphan Medicinal Product, or OMP, by the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA. Our second product candidate is Aurexis, for which we completed a 60 patient Phase II clinical trial in May 2005 evaluating it as a first-line therapy, in combination with antibiotics, to treat serious, life-threatening Staphylococcus aureus, or S. aureus bloodstream infections in hospitalized patients. The Phase II trial was designed to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics and biological activity of a single administration of Aurexis in patients with a confirmed S. aureus bloodstream infection. Based on these results, and pending the outcome of ongoing discussions with the FDA, we plan to initiate a clinical trial to evaluate two administrations of Aurexis in this same indication later this year. We have also initiated a Phase II clinical trial to evaluate Aurexis in patients with cystic fibrosis. We may also initiate future clinical trials for Aurexis for other indications. Aurexis has also been granted Fast Track status by the FDA. Our product candidates have all been developed based on our expertise in MSCRAMM proteins, for which we own or have licensed numerous patents and patent applications. MSCRAMM proteins are located on the surface of pathogenic organisms, such as bacteria and fungi, and play a prominent role in the process of infection. These proteins enable such organisms to initiate and maintain an infection by adhering to specific sites on human tissue or implanted medical devices. Our antibody-based product candidates are designed to bind to specific MSCRAMM proteins, thereby preventing or reducing the severity of infections. We believe that antibody-based product candidates that utilize MSCRAMM proteins may provide a number of advantages over existing anti-infective therapies, including: the ability to be used prophylactically in patients for whom the preventive use of antibiotics is not appropriate or recommended; improving patient outcomes by reducing the incidence of secondary site infections, relapse rates, mortality and length of stay in the intensive care unit or hospital; a lower likelihood of inducing patterns of drug resistance due to their mechanisms of action; and fewer side effects. We have retained all worldwide rights to both Veronate and Aurexis and intend to commercialize Veronate, and potentially Aurexis, in the United States by establishing a specialized, hospital-based sales force. We currently have limited commercialization capabilities, and it is possible that we may never be able to successfully commercialize or sell any of our product candidates. Further, we have neither received regulatory approval for, nor derived any commercial revenues from, either of these product candidates or any other product candidate. We currently have four other product candidates in preclinical development, all of which are based on the use of MSCRAMM proteins. One of these candidates targets hospital-associated enterococcal infections and is the subject of a joint development agreement with Dyax Corp., and another is a human staphylococcal vaccine being developed by Wyeth that is the subject of a worldwide license and collaboration agreement. Hospital-Associated Infections Hospital-associated infections generally refer to infections that patients acquire while being treated or cared for in a hospital or out-patient setting and include, among others, pneumonia, endocarditis and bloodstream infections, or bacteremia. These infections are for the most part caused by bacterial or fungal organisms that are present in the hospital. Most healthy individuals generally are not susceptible to these organisms, but immunocompromised persons, such as VLBW infants and the elderly, or persons who have had 5 Table of Contents surgical procedures or have in-dwelling catheters or medical devices, are particularly vulnerable. According to the Centers for Disease Control, or CDC, the most prevalent organisms causing hospital-associated infections in the United States are bacterial organisms such as S. aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, or S. epidermidis, enterococcal species and fungal organisms such as Candida species. Based on data from the CDC there were an estimated four million infection associated hospital discharges in the U.S. in 2003. Hospital-associated infections are implicated in approximately 90,000 deaths per annum and result in an estimated $5.0 billion in healthcare costs annually in the United States. Antibiotics are the predominant anti-microbial agents used to treat hospital-associated infections. Antibiotics are small molecule compounds whose primary mechanism of action is killing or inhibiting the growth of bacteria. Antibiotics commonly used to treat hospital-associated infections include methicillin and vancomycin. Many bacteria have become increasingly resistant, or unresponsive, to antibiotics, leading to an increase in the incidence of antibiotic-resistant infections. Drug resistance is the result of bacteria undergoing a biochemical mutation that circumvents the mechanisms of action that generally allow antibiotics to work. Some of the most virulent organisms that demonstrate significant patterns of antibiotic resistance include methicillin-resistant S. aureus, or MRSA, and vancomycin-resistant enterococci, or VRE. In light of increasing antibiotic resistance, we believe there is a significant unmet medical need for novel anti-infective therapies that can prevent or treat these serious, life-threatening infections. Our Solution We believe there is a substantial opportunity to utilize our expertise in MSCRAMM proteins to discover, develop and commercialize novel antibody-based products that address the increasing prevalence of life-threatening hospital-associated infections and the lack of effective therapies currently available to treat these infections. The human immune system normally protects the body against a variety of infections and other illnesses by recognizing, neutralizing and eliminating pathogens and malignant cells from the body. One of the primary functions of the immune system is the production of antibodies. Antibodies are soluble proteins found in the plasma portion of whole blood capable of recognizing and binding to pathogens that are potentially harmful to the human body. Antibodies recognize and attach themselves, or bind to antigens, examples of which include MSCRAMM proteins present on the surface of bacteria and fungi. In order for an effective immune response to occur without harming normal cells, the immune system generates antibodies that recognize and bind tightly to one specific antigen. Once an antibody binds to its targeted antigen, it triggers the cellular components of the immune system to clear the pathogen from the body. We have identified antibodies that specifically bind to a number of different MSCRAMM proteins located on the surface of certain pathogenic organisms. MSCRAMM proteins enable organisms to initiate and maintain an infection by adhering to specific binding sites within human tissue or to implanted or in-dwelling materials, such as orthopedic implants, catheters and vascular grafts. We believe that antibodies that target MSCRAMM proteins can reduce the incidence and severity of bacterial and fungal infections through two important biological mechanisms of action. First, by binding to the MSCRAMM proteins, these antibodies inhibit or block the invading organism from attaching to tissue, or implanted or in-dwelling medical devices. Second, these antibodies can cover or coat the invading organism, identifying it for clearance by other cellular components of the immune system through a process commonly referred to as opsonization. We believe that antibody-based products developed utilizing our expertise in MSCRAMM proteins may provide the following advantages over existing anti-infective therapies: • the ability to be used prophylactically in patient in whom the preventive use of antibiotics is not appropriate or recommended; • improve patient outcomes by reducing the incidence of secondary site infections, relapse rates, mortality and length of hospital stay; 6 Table of Contents • a lower likelihood of inducing patterns of drug resistance due to their novel mechanisms of action; and • fewer side effects. Our Product Candidates Our antibody-based product candidates are summarized below: Stage of Worldwide Product Candidate Intended Use Development Commercial Rights Veronate Prevention of hospital-associated infections in VLBW infants Phase III Inhibitex Aurexis First-line therapy for serious S. aureus infections in combination with standard of care antibiotics Phase II Inhibitex Staphylococcus epidermidis monoclonal antibodies Prevention of coagulase negative staphylococci (CoNS) Preclinical Inhibitex Enterococcal monoclonal antibodies Hospital-associated enterococcal infections Preclinical Inhibitex/Dyax Corp. Candida monoclonal antibodies Hospital-associated Candida infections Preclinical Inhibitex Staphylococcal vaccine Prevention of staphylococcal infections Preclinical Wyeth Veronate Veronate is an immune globulin product candidate that contains concentrated amounts of human antibodies that target specific MSCRAMM proteins found on the surface of staphylococci. We are developing Veronate for the prevention of hospital-associated infections in VLBW infants weighing 500 to 1250 grams whose infections occur after the second day of life. Infections that occur after the second day of life are generally referred to by neonatologists as late-onset sepsis. In November 2005, we completed enrollment in a 2,018 patient Phase III clinical trial of Veronate. We anticipate top-line data from this trial will be available in April 2006. Based on our Phase II clinical trial results, we believe that Veronate can reduce the number of hospital-associated infections caused by S. aureus and Candida organisms in VLBW infants. Further, we believe the prophylactic use of Veronate may also reduce the overall mortality rate in VLBW infants in part, because infections caused by S. aureus and Candida organisms are associated with an increased risk of death among these infants. Veronate has been granted Fast Track status by the FDA. Fast Track status allows for submission of a “rolling” BLA and may allow for a priority review by the FDA and is afforded to those proposed products that the FDA believes address life-threatening and unmet medical needs. A BLA is the application that must be submitted to, accepted and approved by the FDA before a biologic product can be marketed or sold in the United States. A “rolling” submission allows for a BLA to be filed in separate, completed sections over a period of time during the drug’s clinical development period. In February 2006, we initiated a rolling BLA submission for Veronate by filing the chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, section of the BLA. We also intend to file the Pre-clinical sections of this BLA in April 2006 and pending data from the pivotal Phase III trial, 7 Table of Contents complete the rolling submission with the filing of the Clinical section in the Fall of 2006. In addition, we filed a request with the FDA for a priority review for the Veronate BLA. If the FDA accepts our request for a priority review, the length of time it takes for Veronate to proceed through the FDA approval process may be shortened. We cannot assure you that the FDA will accept our rolling BLA submission, in whole or in part, or whether we will be granted a priority review or whether the duration of the approval process for Veronate will be reduced, or whether Veronate will be approved by the FDA. Veronate has also been granted Orphan Drug status for the reduction of nosocomial bacteremia caused by staphylococci in VLBW infants, which may provide for market exclusivity for seven years from the date of FDA approval in certain circumstances. Further, in December 2005, the EMEA formally designated Veronate as an Orphan Medicinal Product, or OMP, in Europe. Market Opportunity for the Prevention of Hospital-Associated Infections in VLBW Infants According to the National Center for Health Statistics, a division of the CDC, there were 60,500 VLBW infants born in the United States in 2003, or about 1.45% of all live births. The term VLBW infants refers to those infants that weigh less than 1,500 grams at birth or that are generally less than 32 weeks gestational age. Approximately 42,500, or 70%, of these VLBW infants weighed 1,250 grams or less at birth. Given the rate of mortality generally associated with these smaller infants, we believe that approximately 35,000 to 38,000 of these infants could potentially receive Veronate. The vast majority of VLBW infants are cared for in neonatal intensive care units, or NICUs. The average length of stay in the NICU for VLBW infants is approximately two months. VLBW infants are highly susceptible to infection while in the NICU, given the intensity of the medical care they receive, the duration of their hospitalization, compromised immune system, and the use of intravenous catheters to deliver nutritional fluids and medication. Various studies, including our 512 patient Phase II trial of Veronate indicate that 30-50% of VLBW infants weighing 1,250 grams or less at birth will develop at least one hospital-associated infection. There is an inverse relationship between a VLBW infant’s birth weight and the risk of acquiring a hospital-associated infection. According to a retrospective study conducted by the Neonatal Institute of Child Health and Human Development, or NICHD, covering the calendar years 2000-2002 the mortality rate among VLBW infants who acquire a hospital-associated infection caused by S. aureus or Candida is approximately 17% and 34%, respectively, as compared to 7% for those VLBW infants who do not develop a hospital-associated infection. In addition to associated mortality, several studies indicate that VLBW infants that develop a hospital-associated infection stay, on average, 19 additional days in the NICU when compared to those that do not acquire an infection. For those VLBW infants that weigh less than 1,250 grams at birth and develop a hospital-associated infection, data indicates that their average incremental stay in the NICU is an additional 26 days. A study published by the NICHD further indicated that those VLBW infants that acquire an infection during their stay in the NICU may also experience significant impairment in their neurological development, including cerebral palsy and mental development, as compared to those that did not acquire an infection. Based upon the morbidity, mortality, incremental length of stay in the NICU and potential long-term neurological impairment associated with these hospital-associated infections, we believe the medical benefits that Veronate may provide VLBW infants compare favorably to certain other critical-care drugs utilized in high-risk neonatal and pediatric patients, such as Synagis® for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, and INOmax® for the treatment of respiratory failure due to pulmonary hypertension, which can cost from $5,000 to $12,000 per course of treatment. We cannot assure you that any medical benefits that Veronate may provide, or be perceived to provide, will compare favorably, if at all, with these other critical-care drugs utilized in high-risk neonatal and pediatric patients, or how the selling price of Veronate, if approved, will compare to these drugs. 8 Table of Contents Veronate Clinical Trials Phase III. In November 2005, we completed enrollment in a pivotal Phase III trial of Veronate in VLBW infants weighing between 500 and 1,250 grams at birth. We anticipate that top-line data from this trial will be available in April 2006. This trial, in which we enrolled 2,018 patients, is a multi-center, placebo controlled, double-blind study and is substantially the same in design as the Phase II trial we completed for Veronate in 2004. The trial was conducted at over 90 NICUs across the United States and Canada, and no single site accounted for more that 4.5% of the patients enrolled. Patients were randomized equally into one of two arms: Veronate at a dose of 750 mg/kg or placebo, both administered intravenously. The primary endpoint of this trial is the reduction in the frequency of S. aureus infections in VLBW infants weighing 500-1,250 grams at birth, the same patient population evaluated in our Phase II clinical trial. The design of the trial provides a 90% power to detect a 50% reduction in the frequency of S. aureus infections among infants randomized to receive Veronate compared to those that receive placebo based on an assumed 6% infection rate in the placebo group. Secondary endpoints of this Phase III trial include the reduction in the frequency of candidemia, coagulase-negative staphylococcal, or CoNS, infections, all staphylococcal infections and all-cause mortality. If the primary endpoint is achieved, we believe this trial will be sufficient for the submission of a complete BLA for Veronate. Phase II. In February 2004, we completed a 512 patient, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II clinical trial of Veronate for the prevention of hospital-associated infections in VLBW infants weighing 500 to 1,250 grams at birth. This trial was designed to evaluate the safety, dosing and preliminary efficacy of Veronate in this patient population. Infants in this trial were initially randomized by birth weight to receive one of four intravenous treatments: placebo or Veronate at a dose of 250mg/kg, 500mg/kg or 750mg/kg. This trial was conducted at 53 different NICUs across the United States, and no single site accounted for more than 7% of the patients enrolled. The most common adverse events in this trial, which occurred with similar frequency among those infants who received placebo and those who were administered Veronate, included low serum sodium, metabolic acidosis, food intolerance, high blood glucose, low blood platelets and low blood pressure. There were no dose related trends observed for adverse events, severe adverse events or morbidities associated with prematurity. Nine infants experienced 14 adverse events possibly related to Veronate, including low heart rate, apnea, fast heart rate, diaper rash, jaundice, low blood glucose, high blood glucose, high blood pressure and abdominal distention. Only four of 1,280 infusions were discontinued or interrupted due to adverse events possibly related to Veronate. The preliminary findings from this trial comparing Veronate at a dose of 750 mg/kg to placebo were: • A 63% reduction in the frequency of infection due to S. aureus; • A 67% reduction in the frequency of infection due to Candida; and • A 36% reduction in mortality. These preliminary findings were not statistically significant. The Phase II trial was not powered or designed to demonstrate statistically significant differences among the treatment arms in measures of efficacy. We cannot guarantee that the results of the Phase III trial will be similar to the findings of the Phase II trial. Phase I. In 2002, we conducted a Phase I dose-escalating clinical trial of Veronate in 36 VLBW infants weighing 500 to 1,250 grams at birth. Two cohorts of 18 infants each were studied. One cohort received 500mg/kg of Veronate and the second cohort received 750mg/kg, both intravenously. The infants were monitored for a period of 70 days subsequent to their first infusion. Aurexis Aurexis is a humanized monoclonal antibody currently in development as a first-line therapy, in combination with antibiotics, for the treatment of serious, life-threatening S. aureus bloodstream infections in hospitalized patients. Aurexis and Veronate both target the same MSCRAMM protein on S. aureus. 9 Table of Contents In May 2005 we completed a 60 patient Phase II trial of Aurexis in patients with confirmed S. aureus bloodstream infections. We have also completed enrollment in a Phase I trial of Aurexis in patients with end stage renal disease, and in the second quarter of 2005, initiated a Phase II clinical trial of Aurexis in patients with cystic fibrosis. We are considering additional clinical trials of Aurexis in other patient populations in the future. Aurexis has been granted Fast Track designation by the FDA for the adjunctive treatment of S. aureus bloodstream infections. Market Opportunity for the Treatment of S. aureus Infections S. aureus is one of the leading causes of hospital-associated infections. Based on data compiled by the CDC, an estimated 300,000 S. aureus infections occur in the United States annually. We estimate, based on compiled data, that approximately 60,000 to 90,000 of these S. aureus infections are bloodstream infections. According to the CDC and other sources, the percentage of hospital-associated S. aureus infections in intensive care units in the United States caused by methicillin-resistant S. aureus, or MRSA, doubled between 1994 and 2002, increasing from 30% to nearly 60%. MRSA refer to organisms that are resistant to a class of antibiotics regarded as the first-line treatment for staphylococcal infections. The mortality rate for bloodstream infections associated with MRSA infections is approximately 25-35%, as compared to a 15% mortality rate associated with methicillin-susceptible S. aureus bloodstream infections. Studies further indicate that patients who acquire a MRSA bloodstream infection, as compared to those that do not, require, on average, an additional 12 days in an intensive care unit, at an average cost of more than $27,000. We are developing Aurexis to be used adjunctively as a first-line therapy to treat S. aureus bloodstream infections, independent of which antibiotic is prescribed for treatment. We also believe that the degree to which the medical community will adopt the use of Aurexis will be based on its ability to reduce the incidence of infection-associated mortality, the relapse rate associated with these infections, the frequency of related secondary site infections, and the number of days that patients with such infections stay in the intensive care unit or hospital. Aurexis Clinical Trials Phase II. In May 2005, we reported results from a 60 patient Phase II trial of Aurexis, in combination with antibiotics, for the treatment of documented S. aureus bloodstream infections in hospitalized patients. Patients were randomized to receive antibiotic therapy in combination with either Aurexis, at 20 mg/kg, or placebo. Both Aurexis and the placebo were administered intravenously as a single dose. In this trial, standard of care antibiotic therapy was selected by the individual investigators. Subjects were followed for 57 days, or until early termination from the trial. The primary objectives of the Phase II trial were to evaluate: • the safety of a single administration of Aurexis; • the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of Aurexis; and • the biological activity of a single dose of Aurexis. Favorable trends were observed in the composite primary endpoint of mortality, relapse rate and infection-related complications, and a number of secondary endpoints and ad-hoc analyses, including the progression in the severity of sepsis, the number of days in the intensive care unit, and the resolution of complications due to S. aureus bacteremia. However, the difference in pharmacokinetics observed in patients that received Aurexis in this trial, as compared to the healthy volunteers that received Aurexis in a Phase I trial, resulted in our decision to evaluate utilizing a two dose strategy for this indication, rather than a single administration. Based on these results, and pending the outcome of ongoing discussions with the FDA, we plan to initiate a clinical trial to evaluate two administrations of Aurexis in this same patient population later this year. These preliminary findings were not statistically significant. The Phase II trial was not powered or designed to demonstrate statistically significant differences among the treatment arms in measures of 10 Table of Contents efficacy. We cannot guarantee that the results of subsequent trials will be similar to the findings of the Phase II trial. Phase I. In May 2005, we reported the completion of an eight-patient Phase I clinical trial of Aurexis to evaluate its safety and pharmacokinetics in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Based on the pharmacokinetic data from this trial, we intend to include patients with ESRD in any follow-on trials of Aurexis for the treatment of documented S. aureus bloodstream infections in hospitalized patients. In 2003, we completed an open-label, randomized, dose-escalating Phase I clinical trial in 19 healthy volunteers to assess the safety of Aurexis and determine dose-related pharmacokinetics. Patients were intravenously administered four dose levels of Aurexis at 2, 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg. The volunteers were monitored for a period of 56 days subsequent to the administration of the drug. Safety was monitored by physical examinations, clinical and laboratory tests, and adverse experience assessments. The following adverse events were noted among participants: headache, low white blood cell count, gastro esophageal reflux and red rash. None of these adverse events was severe or believed to be definitely related to Aurexis. No other safety issues were identified and no dose reached the protocol-specified definition of maximum tolerated dose. Pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated that doses of 10mg/kg or greater achieved plasma levels of Aurexis associated with therapeutic efficacy in preclinical animal models. The half life of Aurexis was determined to be approximately 21 days. We selected the 20mg/kg dose for our Phase II trial of Aurexis. Preclinical Results. We have conducted a number of preclinical studies in animals to assess both the safety and potential efficacy of Aurexis. These studies include using Aurexis both prophylactically as a monotherapy to prevent and in combination with vancomycin to treat, MRSA infections. In these studies, no safety or toxicity issues were observed. These studies demonstrated that when used prophylactically, a single dose of Aurexis administered intravenously provided statistically significant levels of protection against MRSA infections as compared to the control. The therapeutic administration of Aurexis intravenously, in combination with vancomycin, significantly enhanced the clearance of MRSA from the animals’ critical organs as compared to vancomycin alone. We believe that the preclinical models that yielded these results are generally viewed by the scientific community as supportive and appropriate for assessing the biological activity of anti-infective product candidates in humans. Other Product Candidates In addition to Veronate and Aurexis, we currently have four product candidates in preclinical development, all of which are based on the use of MSCRAMM proteins. Staphylococcus Epidermidis Monoclonal Antibodies Staphylococcus epidermidis (S. epidermidis) is often reported as the most frequent isolate among coagulase negative staphylococci or (CoNS), which are a major constituent of the normal flora on human skin. Although often considered a contaminant of blood cultures, S. epidermidis is now recognized as an opportunistic pathogen and is one of the leading causes of bacteremia. We have identified a panel of MSCRAMM proteins expressed by S. epidermidis. Humanized monoclonal antibodies that specifically recognize these MSCRAMM proteins have been produced and are being evaluated in a series of in vitro preclinical studies. Enterococcal Monoclonal Antibodies Enterococci account for approximately 8% of all hospital-associated infections and have been reported as the second most common cause of nosocomial endocarditis in the United States. Further, greater than 24% of confirmed enterococcal infections reported in the June 2000 report of U.S. hospitals included in the National Nosocomial Infectious Surveillance System were caused by vancomycin-resistant enterococci, or VRE. In these same hospitals, the reported incidence of VRE strains increased by 40% from 1994 to 1998. We have identified and characterized MSCRAMM protein targets expressed by enterococci and we have generated monoclonal antibodies that recognize these targets. In October 2004, we entered into an 11 Table of Contents agreement with Dyax Corp. to collaborate on the discovery, development, and commercialization of fully human monoclonal antibodies against MSCRAMM proteins on enterococci. Under the terms of the agreement, we and Dyax will jointly develop product candidates that may be identified during the collaboration and will share in the costs to develop any resulting product candidates and the commercialization rights and profits from any marketed products. Candida Monoclonal Antibodies Candida albicans, or C. albicans, is the causative organism of the majority of invasive fungal infections in an expanding population of immunosuppressed or immunocompromised patients such as those undergoing chemotherapy, with organ transplants or with AIDS. We have identified and characterized MSCRAMM proteins on the surface of C. albicans and we have generated monoclonal antibodies that target these proteins. Staphylococcal Vaccine There are a number of patient groups, including approximately 300,000 end stage renal disease patients in the United States, patients receiving chronic long-term care, and patients undergoing certain elective surgeries, who are at risk of acquiring a staphylococcal infection. For these high-risk groups, we believe an active vaccine that can enhance immunity against staphylococcal organisms may be a less costly and preferred mode of therapy. We have entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Wyeth to develop human vaccines against staphylococcal organisms. Our Strategy Our goal is to become a leading biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes novel, antibody-based products to prevent and treat serious bacterial and fungal infections in the hospital setting. In order to achieve this goal, we are focused on the following key strategies: Obtain Regulatory Approval for Veronate. We are focused on completing the clinical and regulatory development of Veronate. Pending satisfactory data from the pivotal Phase III trial for Veronate, we intend to complete the rolling BLA submission for Veronate for the prevention of hospital-associated infections in VLBW infants to obtain approval to market Veronate in the United States. Advance the Development of Aurexis. We are developing Aurexis as a first-line therapy for the treatment of serious S. aureus infections in combination with antibiotics. We have evaluated Aurexis in a Phase II clinical trial in patients with S. aureus bloodstream infections and a Phase I trial in patients with end stage renal disease. Based upon the results of these trials, we intend to further evaluate Aurexis in future clinical trials for the treatment of serious S. aureus bloodstream infections in combination with antibiotics. We may also evaluate Aurexis in other indications in the future. Establish a Specialized, Hospital-Based Sales Force in the United States. We have retained all worldwide rights to Veronate and Aurexis. We intend to establish a specialized hospital-based sales force of approximately 40-50 field representatives to promote Veronate, and potentially Aurexis, in the United States. We believe that the vast majority of the potential demand for Veronate in the United States exists in approximately 1,000 hospitals that operate NICUs. As a result, we believe a relatively small sales force can effectively address this market. While we intend to enter into a worldwide collaboration to further develop and commercialize Aurexis, we plan to leverage our domestic hospital-based sales force by retaining certain co-promotion rights to Aurexis in the United States. In markets outside of the United States, we currently plan to establish partnerships with other companies to commercialize any products we may successfully develop. Utilize Our Expertise in MSCRAMM Proteins to Discover and Develop Additional First-in-Class Products. Our goal is to be the first to market antibody-based products to prevent and treat specific bacterial and fungal infections. We have used our expertise in MSCRAMM proteins to discover and develop Veronate, Aurexis and certain preclinical candidates that may represent first-in-class products. We plan to advance a 12 Table of Contents number of our preclinical product candidates that are focused on monoclonal antibodies directed towards MSCRAMM proteins on staphylococcus epidermidis, enterococcal and Candida organisms. We believe that first-in-class drugs may capture superior market share and have competitive advantages over drugs subsequently introduced. We plan to continue to devote resources to the discovery and development of product candidates that originate from our expertise in MSCRAMM proteins. Expand Our Product Portfolio through In-Licensing and Acquisitions. Further in the future, we intend to capitalize upon our expertise in MSCRAMM proteins, antibody development, commercialization and infectious diseases to in-license or acquire selected product candidates in various stages of development. We will also evaluate opportunities to leverage our sales force by in-licensing or acquiring and promoting additional therapeutics which target the hospital-based market. Sales and Marketing According to data compiled by the American Hospital Association, there are approximately 5,000 hospitals in the United States; however, we believe that the vast majority of the demand for Veronate will occur in approximately 1,000 hospitals where there are NICUs equipped to handle the special needs of VLBW infants. Furthermore, approximately 80% of the NICU beds in the United States are concentrated in approximately 500 of these hospitals. We believe that a specialized, hospital-based field sales force of approximately 40-50 qualified individuals can effectively promote and sell Veronate in this market. We have retained all worldwide rights to Veronate and intend to establish such a sales force and create a commercial infrastructure capable of supporting the independent commercialization of Veronate in the United States. We have also retained worldwide rights to Aurexis and several of our product candidates in preclinical development. While we plan to establish a worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize Aurexis, we intend to retain certain co-promotion rights to Aurexis in the United States. Assuming Veronate is approved for sale by the FDA and we successfully develop a hospital-based sales force, we may promote or co-promote our other product candidates, if approved for sale, in the United States through this sales force. There are approximately 1,000 hospitals that contain NICUs and also account for 45% of all hospital beds in the United States. We believe the sales force we intend to build will be able to effectively market Aurexis and our other product candidates in these hospitals if and when they are approved for sale. We currently have limited commercialization capabilities, and it is possible that we may never be able to successfully commercialize or sell any of our product candidates. We anticipate partnering or collaborating with other companies to develop and commercialize our product candidates in countries and regions outside of the United States. Raw Materials and Manufacturing Raw Materials. Veronate is an immune globulin product candidate derived from human plasma. Accordingly, the critical raw material used in the manufacture of Veronate is plasma that contains a sufficient concentration of naturally occurring human antibodies that specifically target certain MSCRAMM proteins found on the surfaces of S. aureus and S. epidermidis. The plasma that we use to manufacture Veronate is collected only at FDA-approved donor centers in the United States. The qualification of donors, the collection process, and the general operation of donor centers are highly regulated by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. Further, this plasma is required to be tested for certain viral markers prior to being allowed to be shipped from the donor center and into production. We currently do not, nor do we intend to, own or operate any such donor centers or viral market testing facilities. We outsource, and intend to continue to outsource, the collection and testing of this critical raw material to qualified, FDA-approved third-party vendors who own and operate these donor centers and testing facilities. In 2002, we entered into a ten-year supply agreement with DCI Management Group, LLC, or DCI. Pursuant to this supply agreement, no later than 90 days prior to each calendar-year end, we and DCI must agree on the quantity of plasma that we intend to purchase, and they will provide, for the next 13 Table of Contents calendar year. Once this quantity is established, we are generally obligated to purchase at least 90% of this predetermined quantity during the subsequent year. We may terminate this agreement upon mutual agreement of the parties, a material breach by DCI or upon 30 days notice if the clinical development of Veronate is halted or terminated by the FDA or us for any reason. In January 2005, we entered into a second supply agreement with another supplier of plasma. This agreement has a ten-year term; however we may terminate the agreement upon mutual agreement of the parties, a material breach by the supplier, or upon 30 days notice that the clinical development of Veronate is terminated by the FDA or us for any reason. In September 2005, we entered into a third plasma supply agreement with another supplier of plasma for a defined volume of plasma. This agreement has a three-year term; however we may terminate the agreement upon mutual consent of the parties, a material breach by the supplier, or upon 30 days notice that the clinical development of Veronate is halted or terminated by the FDA or us for any reason. In addition to DCI and these new suppliers, we believe there are additional sources of plasma for Veronate, and we anticipate either entering into supply agreements with other suppliers or expanding existing agreements in the future, as necessary. The number of potential donors whose plasma contains a sufficient concentration of naturally occurring human antibodies to manufacture Veronate is limited. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our current or future third-party suppliers will be able to provide us with an adequate quantity of plasma to manufacture a sufficient amount of Veronate for future clinical trials or for commercial purposes. Manufacturing. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We currently outsource the manufacture of our product candidates to qualified contract manufacturers. We anticipate we will continue to rely on these or other qualified contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Since the manufacturing processes used to manufacture Veronate and Aurexis are vastly different, we use different manufacturers for each of these product candidates. The manufacturing process for Veronate is referred to as fractionation and purification. The fractionation process involves separating plasma into various components or fractions. Fractions are then purified from the appropriate fraction. This process has been used for over thirty years by major pharmaceutical companies to manufacture antibody-based products such as immune globulins. In December 2001, we entered into a ten-year contract manufacturing agreement with Nabi Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., or Nabi, to manufacture Veronate on our behalf. Nabi operates a FDA-approved facility in the Boca Raton, Florida, and is approved to manufacture its proprietary, as well as third-party, immune globulin products. Pursuant to our contract with Nabi, we must provide three-year forecasts as to how much Veronate we want it to manufacture on our behalf. As of December 31, 2005, our maximum purchase commitments under this agreement through December 31, 2008, were approximately $6.7 million. However, if we cancel or postpone the production of one or more batches of Veronate in accordance with the terms of this agreement, financial penalties would instead apply, which could be substantially less, and in no case more, than the minimum purchase commitments, depending on the length of the notice provided by us to Nabi. The amount of the cancellation penalty payable ranges from $25,000 per batch if we provide notice of cancellation more than twelve months in advance, to $425,000 per batch if we provide notice of cancellation less than 90 days in advance of the scheduled production date of the related batch. We believe Nabi is qualified and has the available capacity to manufacture Phase III clinical trial material and commercial quantities of Veronate. Nabi has manufactured five lots of Veronate to date. During the term of this agreement, we may not grant any rights allowing any other party to manufacture Veronate, and therefore we may not engage an alternative manufacturer until the agreement is terminated. We may terminate the agreement with Nabi if Nabi materially breaches the agreement, subject to a 20-day cure period, or if the clinical development of Veronate is halted or terminated. We do not have alternative manufacturing plans for Veronate at this time. If our agreement with Nabi were terminated for any reason, it may be difficult or impossible for us to find alternative manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Even in the event we find such an alternative manufacturer, in accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, changing manufacturers generally requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures and may require further clinical trials, which may be costly 14 Table of Contents and require several years to complete. Because Nabi is developing antibody-based products to prevent or treat S. aureus infections or S. epidermidis infections, we consider Nabi to be a potential competitor. We have used a contract manufacturer, Avid Bioservices, Inc., or Avid, to produce clinical trial material for Aurexis for use in our Phase I and II clinical trials. As of December 31, 2005, we have no long-term obligations under any of our prior agreements with Avid, although we anticipate utilizing its services in 2006 to manufacture additional clinical trial material for our Aurexis program. In November 2004, we entered into an agreement with Lonza Biologics PLC for the manufacture of a second clone of Aurexis. Under the terms of the agreement, Lonza agreed to perform numerous process development related services and manufacture a cGMP lot of Aurexis for potential use in future clinical trials, which they have completed. As of December 31, 2005, our maximum purchase commitments under this agreement through June 30, 2008, were approximately $0.2 million. Competition Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Significant competitive factors in our industry include, among others, product efficacy and safety; the timing and scope of regulatory approvals; the government reimbursement rates for and the average selling price of products; the availability of raw materials and qualified manufacturing capacity; manufacturing costs; intellectual property and patent rights and their protection; and sales and marketing capabilities. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and are approved for sale by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries may compete with existing products and products that may become available in the future. Many organizations, including large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, such as Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Merck & Co., Inc., Pfizer, Inc., and MedImmune, Inc. as well as academic and research organizations and government agencies, continue to pursue the research and development of novel anti-infective therapies that target staphylococcal as well as other bacterial and fungal organisms. Many of these organizations have more substantial capital resources than we have, and greater capabilities and experience than we do in basic research, conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory affairs, manufacturing, marketing and sales. As a result, we may face competitive disadvantages relative to these organizations should they develop or commercialize a competitive product. Therefore, we cannot assure you that any of our product candidates, if approved for sale, will compete successfully and that another organization will not succeed in developing and commercializing products that render our technology or product candidates non-competitive or obsolete. Currently, we are not aware of any antibody-based products approved by the FDA specifically for the prevention or treatment of S. aureus, CoNS, Candida or enterococcal infections in any patient population. However, we are aware of several biopharmaceutical companies developing antibody-based therapies directed towards the prevention or treatment of bacterial and fungal, and particularly staphylococcal, infections. Nabi Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. is a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, manufactures and markets antibody-based therapies. Nabi has antibody-based product candidates and vaccines currently in various stages of development that are directed towards preventing or treating staphylococcal infections. One of these product candidates has received Orphan Drug status from the FDA. Nabi is our contract manufacturer for Veronate. In 2005, Medimmune, Inc. in-licensed intellectual property from Biosynexus, Inc., a privately-held biotechnology company that is developing a portfolio of protein-based products including monoclonal antibodies, enzymes and peptides, for the prevention and treatment of staphylococcal infections. Medimmune, Inc. has indicated it expects to continue the development of monoclonal antibodies against staphylococcal organisms in the future. NeuTec, PLC is a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company that is developing a portfolio of antibody-based therapeutic products designed to treat life-threatening infections, particularly hospital-acquired infections such as MRSA and Candida. 15 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Rights and Patents We own or are licensed under numerous issued United States patents and pending patent applications, as well as corresponding international filings in the field of MSCRAMMs and surface adhesins. The issued United States patents expire between 2009 and 2021. In addition to our patents and patent applications, we have registered trademarks for Inhibitex, MSCRAMM, Aurexis and Veronate. Of the patents and applications in our portfolio, the following pertain directly to Veronate and Aurexis: • Our United States patent describing Veronate is directed to purified human immune globulin antibodies to certain MSCRAMM proteins found on S. aureus and S. epidermidis. This patent will expire in 2018 if not extended. Our pending United States Veronate patent application includes claims directed to methods used in preparing Veronate. Corresponding international applications are pending. • Our United States SdrG patent is directed to the nucleic acid sequence, or DNA, encoding the SdrG protein of S. epidermidis. The SdrG MSCRAMM protein is used in identifying donors for the preparation of Veronate. This patent will expire in 2018 if not extended. Our pending United States SdrG patent applications are directed to the SdrG protein and related methods. Corresponding international applications are pending. • Our two United States ClfA patents relate to both Veronate and Aurexis and are directed to the DNA encoding ClfA and the ClfA MSCRAMM protein on S. aureus. These patents will expire in 2016 and 2014, respectively, if not extended. The ClfA protein is used in the identification of donors for the preparation of Veronate and is also the protein recognized by the Aurexis monoclonal antibody. There are no corresponding foreign rights available for the ClfA protein and nucleic acid sequences. Our pending United States ClfA patent application claims antibodies to the ClfA protein. Our United States ClfA monoclonal antibody patent relates to Aurexis and contains claims to monoclonal antibodies recognizing the ClfA protein. This patent will expire in 2021 if not extended. Corresponding international applications are pending. Patent rights and other proprietary rights are important in our business and for the development of our product candidates. We have sought, and intend to continue to seek patent protection for our inventions and rely upon patents, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain a competitive advantage. In order to protect these rights, know-how and trade secrets, we typically require employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements with us, generally stating that they will not disclose any confidential information about us to third parties for a certain period of time, and will otherwise not use confidential information for anyone’s benefit but ours. The patent positions of companies like ours involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, their enforceability cannot be predicted with any certainty. Our issued patents, those licensed to us, and those that may issue to us in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted thereunder may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. Expiration of patents we own or license could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. We have filed two opposition proceedings with the European Patent Office, or EPO, to revoke or substantially narrow two patents issued to the Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine relating to staphylococcal surface proteins. These patents have been licensed to Biosynexus. In the first opposition, on November 5, 2003 an oral proceeding took place in which the EPO concluded that the patent was limited to a single claim having no relevance to our products. The patentee has appealed the decision and a ruling is not expected to occur until late 2006. No preliminary 16 Table of Contents recommendation has been issued in the second opposition proceeding, which we anticipate will occur in 2006. We believe that we do not infringe the corresponding United States patents, which have narrower claims than those issued in Europe. Licensing and Collaborative Agreements To date, we have entered into a number of license and collaborative agreements with various institutions to obtain intellectual property rights and patents relating to MSCRAMM proteins and our product candidates. We have also entered into an exclusive worldwide license and collaboration agreement with Wyeth with respect to their use of our MSCRAMM protein intellectual property to develop human staphylococcal vaccines and a joint development agreement with Dyax Corp. for the discovery, development, and commercialization of therapeutic products for the treatment of infections caused by enterococci. Our strategy includes possible future in-licensing of intellectual property or product candidates, as well as collaborations with companies that may utilize our intellectual property in their products, or develop, co-develop, market and sell our product candidates in markets outside of the United States. Texas A&M University Health Science Center We have an exclusive royalty-bearing license from the Texas A&M University System, or Texas A&M, for an issued United States patent with claims directed toward the SdrG nucleic acid sequence and related pending United States divisional applications directed toward the SdrG protein and antibodies to it, as well as corresponding foreign applications. SdrG is the MSCRAMM protein that we target on S. epidermidis and is used in the manufacture of Veronate. We also have an exclusive royalty-bearing license to Texas A&M’s rights in an allowed United States patent application and foreign counterparts directed to the methods we use for screening and selecting donor plasma using MSCRAMMs for both SdrG and ClfA in the manufacture of Veronate. BioResearch Ireland/Trinity College Dublin is a co-owner of these patents and applications. All of these licenses are subject to certain research rights retained by Texas A&M. Texas A&M may terminate the license if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to bring our products candidates to market. We may terminate the license without cause upon 60 days written notice. Otherwise, this agreement will terminate upon the expiration of all of the licensed patents. Currently, the latest to expire of the issued patents under the license agreement expires in 2019. We have agreed to pay Texas A&M a royalty based on net sales for any product sold utilizing these licenses. In connection with these license agreements, in 1995 we entered into the first of several cooperative research agreements with Texas A&M. Pursuant to these agreements, we have the exclusive worldwide right to any discoveries resulting from this collaboration, subject to research rights retained by Texas A&M and certain rights of the United States government. We also have a right of first refusal to acquire the rights to and file patents on discoveries made by Texas A&M in the field of MSCRAMM proteins that are made outside of the scope of the collaboration. Texas A&M is entitled to a royalty on revenues that we receive for products that incorporate technology developed through this collaboration. We may terminate this collaboration upon 90 days written notice if the work is not performed satisfactorily. Pursuant to these agreements, we have paid Texas A&M approximately $1.7 million through December 31, 2005. We have no future minimum royalty or milestone obligations pursuant to these agreements, but we currently pay Texas A&M approximately $382,000 in annual sponsored research payments. Our obligation to pay sponsored research payments ends in November 2006. If we do not continue to pay sponsored research payments beyond that time, we will be obligated to pay a minimum royalty of $25,000 annually. BioResearch Ireland/Trinity College Dublin In 1996 we obtained an exclusive royalty-bearing license from BioResearch Ireland, or (BRI), for an issued United States patent with claims directed toward the SdrG nucleic acid sequence and related pending United States divisional applications directed toward the SdrG protein and antibodies to it, as well 17 Table of Contents as corresponding foreign applications. SdrG is the MSCRAMM protein that we target on S. epidermidis and is used in the manufacture of Veronate. We also have an exclusive royalty-bearing license to BRI’s rights in an allowed United States patent application and foreign counterparts directed to the methods we use for screening and selecting donor plasma using MSCRAMMs for both SdrG and ClfA in the manufacture of Veronate. We also have an exclusive royalty-bearing license from BRI under two issued United States patents and a pending United States patent application directed to the ClfA nucleic acid and protein. The license also covers pending international applications relating to antibodies to ClfA. BRI may terminate the license if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to bring one or more products that use the licensed technology to market. Otherwise, this license will terminate upon the expiration of the licensed patents. We may terminate the license agreement as to any patent or patent application upon 90 days notice. Currently, the latest to expire of the issued patents under the license agreement expires in 2019. Since 1996, we have entered into several cooperative research agreements with BRI and Trinity College Dublin, or TCD, for technologies relating to staphylococcal surface proteins. We have exclusive worldwide rights to, and are entitled to file patents on, any discoveries resulting from this collaboration. All licenses from BRI and TCD are subject to research rights retained by BRI or TCD. BRI or TCD is entitled to a royalty on any revenues that we receive from the sale of products that incorporate technology developed through the collaborative arrangement. We may terminate the collaboration agreement on two months written notice. BRI may terminate in the event of an uncured material breach by us. Pursuant to these agreements, we have paid BRI approximately $256,000 and TCD approximately $105,000 through December 31, 2005. We have no future minimum royalty or milestone obligations pursuant to these agreements, but we currently pay TCD approximately $35,000 in annual sponsored research payments. Other Licensing Agreements Wyeth In August 2001, we entered into a license and development collaboration agreement with Wyeth for the development of human staphylococcal vaccines. Under the terms of this agreement, we granted Wyeth an exclusive worldwide license to our MSCRAMM protein intellectual property with respect to human vaccines against staphylococcal organisms. The development, manufacture and sale of any products resulting from the collaboration will be the responsibility of Wyeth. We may terminate this agreement if Wyeth fails to use reasonable commercial efforts to bring related products to market. Wyeth may terminate the agreement without cause on six months notice. Otherwise, this agreement will terminate upon the expiration of all of the licensed patents. Currently, the latest to expire of the issued patents under the license agreement expires in 2019. Pursuant to this agreement, we have received $4.3 million in an upfront license fee and annual research support payments from Wyeth as of December 31, 2005. We are entitled to receive minimum research support payments of $500,000 per year until the first commercial sale of any product developed under this agreement. The minimum annual research payment we receive from Wyeth increases to $1.0 million if Wyeth does not initiate a Phase I trial by July 31, 2007. We are also entitled to receive milestone payments upon the filing of an Investigational New Drug application, or IND, the commencement of both Phase II and Phase III clinical trials, the filing of a BLA, and FDA approval of a licensed product. If all such milestones are achieved relative to one or more licensed products, we would be entitled to receive a minimum of $10.0 million in milestone payments from Wyeth. The maximum milestone payments we could receive with respect to all licensed products are $15.5 million. Finally, we are also entitled to royalties on net sales of licensed products manufactured, sold or distributed by Wyeth. Dyax In October 2004, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Dyax. to co-develop monoclonal antibodies to prevent or treat serious infections caused by enterococci. Under the terms of the agreement, 18 Table of Contents we and Dyax have agreed to collaborate and share in the costs to perform preclinical research and development activities intended to identify and select a fully human monoclonal antibody, or antibodies, against MSCRAMM proteins located on the surface of enterococci, that we could jointly advance into clinical development. During this preclinical phase, we and Dyax are responsible only for our respective internal development costs. Accordingly, neither party is responsible to make any upfront payments to the other party, nor is either party obligated to make future milestone or royalty payments to the other party at this time. Our internal development costs are expected to consist largely of salaries and other personnel-related costs associated with existing employees, certain supplies and other costs, such as travel and entertainment, associated with supporting existing employees. If at the end of the collaborative preclinical development activities, we mutually agree to advance one or more human monoclonal antibodies into clinical trials, we expect to continue to share in the clinical development costs of any such product candidates. The agreement also contemplates that we would share in the commercialization rights and profits from any approved and marketed products resulting from the collaboration. In the event that the parties mutually agree that the collaboration has been unable to identify a suitable monoclonal antibody to advance into clinical development, the collaboration agreement will immediately and automatically terminate without any further obligations to either party. Otherwise, this agreement can only be terminated during the initial preclinical development phase upon the mutual consent of both parties, or by one party in the event that the other party has committed a material breach, or filed for insolvency or bankruptcy. Aurexis Manufacturing Licenses The following four agreements relate to intellectual property associated with the production of monoclonal antibodies that we have in-licensed. In November 2001, we entered into a research evaluation and worldwide non-exclusive license agreement with Lonza Biologics for intellectual property and materials relating to the expression of recombinant monoclonal antibodies to bacterial surface proteins for use in the manufacture of Aurexis. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay an annual fee of up to 100,000 pounds sterling and a royalty on the net selling price of any products that we market that utilize the underlying technology. In the event we do not use Lonza to manufacture Aurexis, if and when it is approved by the FDA for sale, the annual payment would increase to 300,000 pounds sterling per year. We may terminate the agreement upon 60 days notice. The agreement terminates upon the expiration of the last valid patent or 15 years, whichever is longer. Currently, the latest to expire of the issued patents under the license agreement expires in 2016. Pursuant to this agreement, we have paid Lonza $761,000 as of December 31, 2005. In June 2003, we obtained a non-exclusive, worldwide royalty-bearing license from Genentech for a patent, commonly known as the Cabilly patent, relating to the production of monoclonal antibodies for use in the manufacture of Aurexis. Under the agreement, we agreed to pay Genentech an up-front license fee and we are further obligated to pay a milestone payment due upon the approval of Aurexis and a royalty on the sale of any of our products that utilize the underlying technology. We may terminate this agreement without cause upon 90 days notice. Otherwise, this license will terminate upon the expiration of the patent, which will occur in 2018 if not extended. Pursuant to this agreement, we have paid $500,000 to Genentech as of December 31, 2005. Our aggregate future payments under this agreement are $5.0 million, which is payable if Aurexis is approved for sale by the FDA. In July 2003, we obtained a non-exclusive, worldwide royalty-bearing license from the University of Iowa for patents, commonly known as the CMV promoter or Stinski patents, relating to the expression of recombinant proteins used in the manufacture of Aurexis. Under this agreement, we paid the University of Iowa an up-front license fee of $35,000 and are obligated to make annual payments of $35,000 per year. We also agreed to pay a royalty on the sale of any of our products that utilize the underlying technology and milestone payments of $40,000 for each of the first four licensed products to receive FDA approval. We may terminate this agreement at any time. Otherwise, this license will terminate upon the expiration of the two licensed patents, which will be 2009 and 2012, respectively. 19 Table of Contents In March 2004, we obtained a non-exclusive, worldwide royalty-bearing license from the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for patent applications relating to technology used in the humanization of monoclonal antibodies. Under this agreement we agreed to pay an up-front license fee, a minimum annual royalty of $25,000 per year, a royalty on the sale of any of our products that would otherwise infringe any patent that may issue from the pending applications, and milestone payments. For any product covered by this license, the milestone payments are based upon the filing of an IND, the first subject enrolled in a Phase II and Phase III trial, the filing of a BLA, and upon the approval of a BLA by the FDA. We may terminate this agreement upon 60 days notice. This agreement terminates upon the expiration of the patent, which will occur in 2011 if not extended. Pursuant to this agreement, we have paid $259,000 to the NIH as of December 31, 2005. If Aurexis is approved for sale by the FDA, our total future payments to the NIH under this agreement related to milestones would be approximately $900,000 in the aggregate. Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement In both the United States and foreign markets, any revenue associated with our products will depend largely upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers. Third-party payers include various government health authorities such as The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, which administers Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, managed-care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, including pharmaceuticals. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Our products may ultimately not be considered cost-effective, and adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to support a profitable operation or generate an appropriate return on our investment in product development. The United States and foreign governments periodically propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before any of our product candidates are ever approved for marketing. Adoption of new legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. The marketability of our products may suffer if the government and other third-party payers fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement rates for our product candidates. We intend to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products from these third-party payers; however we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining adequate coverage, reimbursement, or pricing, if any. Regulatory Matters Overview The preclinical and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, distribution, promotion, sale and export, reporting and record-keeping of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, principally the FDA and corresponding state agencies, and regulatory agencies in foreign countries. Non-compliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, seizure of products, total or partial suspension of product manufacturing and marketing, failure of the government to grant approval, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. 20 Table of Contents United States Regulatory Approval Pursuant to FDA regulations, we are required to undertake a long and rigorous process before any of our product candidates may be marketed or sold in the United States. This regulatory process typically includes the following general steps: • the performance of satisfactory preclinical laboratory and animal studies under the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practices regulation; • the development and demonstration of manufacturing processes which conform to FDA-mandated current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs; • the submission and acceptance of an IND which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin in the United States; • obtaining the approval of Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, at each site where we plan to conduct a clinical trial to protect the welfare and rights of human subjects in clinical trials; • the successful completion of a series of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety, purity, potency and efficacy of any product candidate for its intended use, which conform to the FDA’s good clinical practice regulations; and • the submission to, and review and approval by the FDA of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, or for non-biologic pharmaceutical products, a New Drug Application, or NDA, prior to any commercial sale or shipment of a product. This process requires a substantial amount of time and financial resources. We cannot assure you or be certain that this process will result in the granting of an approval for any of our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. In 2002, the FDA announced a reorganization that has resulted in the shift of the oversight and approval process for certain therapeutic biologic drugs and the related staff from the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, or CBER, to the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER. Our lead product candidate, Veronate, is being regulated through CBER, while Aurexis, which was originally regulated through CBER, and any other monoclonal product candidates that we may develop in the future, are now being regulated through CDER. This transition was not intended to result in any delays in the FDA’s review of biopharmaceuticals, but there can be no assurance that there will not be any such delay. Preclinical Testing Preclinical tests generally include laboratory evaluation of a product candidate, its chemistry, formulation, stability and toxicity, as well as certain animal studies to assess its potential safety and efficacy. We must submit the results of these preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and the clinical trial protocol, to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before we may begin any human clinical trials. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within this 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the intended conduct of the trials and imposes what is referred to as a clinical hold. If one or more of our products is placed on clinical hold, we would be required to resolve any outstanding issues to the satisfaction of the FDA before we could begin, or continue clinical trials. Preclinical studies generally take several years to complete, and there is no guarantee that an IND based on those studies will become effective, allowing clinical testing to begin. In addition to FDA review of an IND, each medical site that desires to participate in a proposed clinical trial must have the clinical protocol reviewed and approved by an independent IRB. The IRB considers, among other things, ethical factors, and the selection and safety of human subjects. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices requirements. 21 Table of Contents Clinical Trials Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases: Phase I. In Phase I clinical trials, a product candidate is typically introduced either into healthy human subjects or patients with the medical condition for which the new drug is intended to be used. Generally the main purpose of a Phase I trial is to assess a product candidate’s safety and the ability of the human body to tolerate the product candidate. Absorption, metabolism, distribution and pharmacokinetic trials are also generally performed at this stage. Phase II. During this phase, a product candidate is generally studied in an exploratory trial or trials in a limited number of patients with the disease or medical condition for which it is intended to be used in order to (i) further identify any possible adverse side effects and safety risks, (ii) assess the preliminary or potential efficacy or biologic activity of the product candidate for specific targeted diseases or medical conditions, and (iii) assess dosage tolerance and determine the optimal dose for a subsequent Phase II or Phase III trial. Phase II trials generally involve patients who are divided into one or more groups that will get one of several dose levels of the product candidate, and a control group that will not be treated with the product candidate and may receive a placebo. Phase III. If and when one or more Phase II trials demonstrate that a specific dose or range of doses of a product candidate is potentially effective and has an acceptable safety profile, one or more Phase III trials are generally undertaken to further demonstrate or confirm clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded patient population with the goal of evaluating the overall risk-benefit relationship of the product candidate. Phase III trials will generally be designed to reach a specific goal or endpoint, the achievement of which is intended to demonstrate the product candidate’s potential clinical efficacy. The successful demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety in one or more Phase III trials is typically a prerequisite to the filing of a BLA or a NDA for a product candidate. We cannot be certain that we will successfully complete any Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing of our product candidates within any specific time period, if at all. Furthermore, we, the FDA, an IRB, or a Data Safety Monitoring Board may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health or safety risk. Biologics License Applications If and when our clinical trials have been completed with satisfactory clinical data we must submit a BLA to the FDA in order to obtain approval for the marketing and sale of a product candidate. Among many other items, a BLA typically includes a description of the manufacturing process and quality control methods, as well as the results of preclinical and toxicology studies and clinical trials. The FDA must approve the BLA prior to the marketing and sale of the related product. The FDA may deny a BLA if all applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional data, including clinical, toxicology, safety or manufacturing data. It can take several years for the FDA to approve a BLA once it is submitted, and the actual time required for any product candidate may vary substantially, depending upon the nature, complexity and novelty of the product candidate. We cannot be certain that the FDA, or any other similar regulatory agency in other countries, will grant approval for any of our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Success in preclinical or early-stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Even if such regulatory approval is granted, additional post-marketing, or Phase IV clinical trials, may be required that would add additional product development costs beyond those incurred through Phase III testing. The FDA generally requires products with Fast Track status, such as Veronate and Aurexis, to be further evaluated for safety in Phase IV clinical trials. 22 Table of Contents Post-Approval Regulations If and when a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval is typically limited to specific clinical indications. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, subsequent discovery of previously unknown safety problems with a product may result in restrictions on its use or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Any FDA-approved products manufactured or distributed by us are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse events or experiences. Further, drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and state agencies for compliance with cGMP, which impose rigorous procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our contract manufacturers. Manufacturers of biologics must also comply with the FDA’s general biological standards. We cannot be certain that we, or our present or future contract manufacturers or suppliers, will be able to comply with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, total or partial suspension of production activities, failure of the FDA to grant approval for marketing, and withdrawal, suspension, or revocation of marketing approvals. If the FDA approves one or more of our product candidates, we and our contract manufacturers must provide the FDA with certain updated safety, efficacy, and manufacturing information. Product changes, as well as certain changes in the manufacturing process or facilities where the manufacturing occurs or other post-approval changes may necessitate additional FDA review and approval. The labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and distribution of a drug or biologic product also comply with FDA and Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, requirements which include, among others, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. The FDA and FTC have very broad enforcement authority, and failure to abide by these regulations can result in penalties, including the issuance of a Warning Letter directing the company to correct deviations from regulatory standards and enforcement actions that can include seizures, fines, injunctions and criminal prosecution. The FDA’s policies may change in the future and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. Moreover, increased attention to the containment of health care costs in the United States and in foreign markets could result in new government regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad, or the impact such changes could have on our business. Fast Track and Orphan Drug Status Both Veronate and Aurexis have received Fast Track status as provided for under various FDA regulations. Veronate has also been designated as an Orphan Drug by the FDA for the reduction of nosocomial bacteremia caused by staphylococci in VLBW infants. If our other product candidates meet the criteria, we may also apply for Orphan Drug and Fast Track status for such product candidates. The FDA has developed “Fast Track” policies, which provide for the potential for expedited review of a BLA. However, there is no assurance that the FDA will, in fact, accelerate the review process for a Fast Track product candidate. Fast Track status is provided only for those new and novel therapies that are intended to treat persons with life-threatening and severely debilitating diseases where there is a defined unmet medical need, especially where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or the new therapy is significantly superior to alternative therapies. During the development of product candidates that qualify for this status, the FDA may expedite consultations and reviews of these experimental therapies. Fast Track status also provides for the potential for a “priority review”, whereby the FDA agrees to reduce the time it takes to review a BLA or NDA. The FDA can base approval of a marketing application for a Fast Track product on a clinical endpoint or on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA generally requires as a condition of the approval of an application for certain Fast Track 23 Table of Contents products, additional post-approval studies or Phase IV clinical studies to validate the surrogate endpoint or confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Further, Fast Track status allows for a rolling BLA or NDA submission, whereby portions of the application can be submitted to the FDA for review prior to the completion of the entire application. A rolling submission could result in a reduction in the length of time it would otherwise take the FDA to complete its review of the application. Fast Track status may be revoked by the FDA at any time if the clinical results of a trial fail to continue to support the assertion that the respective product candidate has the potential to address an unmet medical need. In addition Fast Track status may be granted for a specific application of a drug candidate. The FDA may grant Orphan Drug status to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which, in the United States, is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals. If and when the FDA grants Orphan Drug status, the generic name and trade name of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Aside from guidance concerning the non-clinical laboratory studies and clinical investigations necessary for approval of the BLA, Orphan Drug status does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The FDA may grant Orphan Drug status to multiple competing product candidates targeting the same indications. A product that has been designated as an Orphan Drug that subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has received such designation is entitled to Orphan Drug exclusivity, which means the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same type of drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years from the date of FDA approval. Drugs demonstrating superiority to a previously approved Orphan Drug may be approved within the seven year window. Orphan Drug status may also provide certain tax benefits. Foreign Regulatory Approval Outside of the United States, our ability to market our product candidates will also be contingent upon receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities whether or not FDA approval has been obtained. The foreign regulatory approval process in most industrialized countries generally includes risks that are similar with the FDA approval process we have described herein. The requirements governing conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorizations, and the time required to obtain requisite approvals may vary widely from country to country and differ from that required for FDA approval. In Europe, Orphan Medicinal Product, or OMP, designation is granted to drugs that are being developed to prevent or treat life-threatening or very serious conditions that impact not more than five out of 10,000 individuals in the European Union. OMP designation provides for 10 years of market exclusivity versus similar drugs for the same indication. Other benefits include a reduction in fees associated with marketing applications and access to scientific advice from the EMEA at no cost. In December 2005, Veronate was granted OMP designation. 24 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 80 full-time employees, 63 of whom were engaged in research and development, clinical, regulatory, and quality assurance and control, and 17 of whom were engaged in administration, sales and marketing, finance, and business development. All of our employees have entered into non-disclosure agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, trade secrets and other confidential information. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced any work stoppages. We believe that we maintain satisfactory relations with our employees. Available Information We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports from time to time. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically. Our website address is www.inhibitex.com. Please note that these website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, our financial condition, and our ability to raise additional capital in the future or ever become profitable. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidate, Veronate, which is in clinical development. If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize Veronate, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. Since our inception, we have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources on the development of Veronate. We anticipate that in the near-term, our potential to generate significant product revenues will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of Veronate in the United States. We believe we will need to raise additional funds before we can fully commercialize Veronate. We expect top-line data from our pivotal Phase III trial of Veronate to be available in April 2006. If the data from this Phase III clinical trial for Veronate are not satisfactory: • we may delay or terminate any further development of Veronate; • we may not be able to complete the filing of a BLA for Veronate; • we may be forced to narrow the indication for which we seek marketing approval; or • we may be required to perform additional Phase III trials. If we believe the results from our Phase III trial are satisfactory and we proceed to complete the filing of a BLA for Veronate, the FDA may not accept our filing, or may request additional information, require us to perform additional clinical trials, limit its approval to a subset of patients, or ultimately not grant marketing approval for Veronate at all. Veronate has been granted Fast Track status by the FDA. Fast Track status may qualify Veronate for a priority review by the FDA, but does not assure it. Fast Track status may be withdrawn by the FDA at any time if it believes that such status is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. If we are not successful in commercializing Veronate, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed and we may need to curtail or cease operations. No antibody-based products that target MSCRAMM proteins have been developed or approved. All of our product candidates, including Veronate and Aurexis, target various MSCRAMM proteins. The use of MSCRAMM proteins to develop antibody-based products is an untested approach. These proteins have yet to be used by us or others to successfully develop any approved drugs. MSCRAMM proteins may ultimately prove to be a non-viable target for developing anti-infective or other drug candidates. If Phase III clinical trial results for Veronate are unsatisfactory, this may cast doubt on the viability of our MSCRAMM protein approach, our entire portfolio of product candidates, and we may need to curtail or cease operations. If the clinical trials for our product candidates are unsuccessful or delayed, we could be delayed or precluded from further developing or ultimately selling our product candidates. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties, complexities and risks present in a development stage biopharmaceutical company. In order to receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates, we must conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Clinical testing is expensive, takes many years to complete, and its 26 Table of Contents outcome is highly uncertain. Delays, or clinical setbacks or failures may occur at any time, or in any phase of the clinical development process for a number of reasons, including safety concerns, a lack of demonstrated efficacy, poor trial design, and manufacturing-related issues related to the material used to conduct the clinical trials. Further, many later-stage trials, such as our Phase III trial of Veronate, are “blinded”, meaning the status and outcome of the trial are unknown to all of the participants in the trial, including the company or organization sponsoring the trial, until the top-line data is complied, finalized or locked, and made available. If the enrollment of patients into our clinical trials is delayed or proceeds at a slower pace than expected, our clinical trials will take longer, and cost more, to complete. The results of preclinical studies and prior clinical trials of our product candidates may not predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical development may fail to show desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully demonstrated so in earlier clinical testing. Even if the data collected from clinical trials involving our product candidates are satisfactory and demonstrate safety and efficacy, such results may not be sufficient to support the submission of a BLA or to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the United States, or elsewhere. We have completed enrollment in a 2,018 patient Phase III trial for which we are awaiting top-line data, and completed a 512 patient Phase II trial for Veronate and a 60 patient Phase II trial for Aurexis. The results of the Phase II trials were not statistically significant. There can be no assurance that the results of these trials are predictive of the outcome of later-stage trials for Veronate and Aurexis. Even if our products are granted regulatory approval, post-approval or Phase IV clinical trials may demonstrate safety concerns that require removing the product from the marketplace. We must comply with extensive government regulations in order to obtain and maintain marketing approval for our products in the United States and abroad. Our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic and foreign government regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Our product candidates are also subject to similar extensive regulation by foreign governments to the extent we seek to develop and commercialize them in those countries. We must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, if applicable, with clinical data that appropriately demonstrate our product candidates’ safety and efficacy in humans before they can be approved for the targeted indications. None of our product candidates has been approved for sale in the United States or any foreign market, and we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we are developing or plan to develop. The regulatory review and approval process can take many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity, novelty of, and need for the product, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and vigilance, and generally involves ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or Phase IV clinical trials. In addition, we may encounter delays in or fail to gain regulatory approval for our product candidates based upon additional governmental regulation resulting from future legislative or administrative action or changes in FDA policy or interpretation during the period of product development. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect our ability to further develop or commercialize any product candidates; • diminish any competitive advantages that we may have or attain; and • adversely affect revenues or the receipt of royalties from the sale of our products. Furthermore, any regulatory approvals, if granted, may later be withdrawn. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any time, or if post-approval safety concerns arise, we may be subject to restrictions or a number of actions, including: • delays in clinical trials or the commercialization of our products; • refusal by the FDA to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • product recalls or seizures; 27 Table of Contents • suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. Additionally, we may voluntarily withdraw any approved product from the market if we believe that the product may pose a safety risk to patients, or if the approved product no longer meets our business objectives. The ability to market a pharmaceutical product outside of the United States is contingent upon receiving marketing authorization from the respective foreign regulatory authorities. Foreign regulatory approval processes typically include many, if not all, of the risks associated with the FDA as described above and may include additional risks. We may be forced to delay, curtail, or terminate the development or commercialization of our product candidates or significantly alter or abandon our business strategy if we are unable to obtain additional funding. We expect that we will need additional capital in the future, and the extent of this need will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the successful and continued development of our product candidates in preclinical and clinical testing; • the establishment of marketing and sales capabilities and the costs to develop a corporate infrastructure to support the commercialization of our product candidates; • the time it takes to receive regulatory approvals needed to market our product candidates; • the level of market acceptance of our products; • future payments, if any, received or made under existing or possible future collaborative arrangements; • the costs associated with protecting and expanding our patent and other intellectual property rights; and • the need to acquire licenses to new products or compounds. We anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and available credit facilities will enable us to operate for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this filing. We have no other committed sources of additional capital at this time. We cannot assure you that funds will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on terms that we find acceptable, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate research and development efforts or clinical trials on any or all of our product candidates. We may also be forced to curtail or restructure our operations, obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborators or partners on unattractive terms, sell or relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates or our intellectual property that we would not otherwise sell or relinquish in order to continue our operations. If third-party vendors upon whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials do not perform or fail to comply with strict regulations, the clinical trials for our product candidates may be terminated, delayed, or unsuccessful. We have limited experience in conducting and managing large clinical trials. We rely on third parties, including clinical research organizations, consultants and principal investigators to assist us in managing, monitoring and conducting our clinical trials. We rely on these vendors and individuals to assist in the recruitment of sites and patients for participation in our clinical trials, to maintain positive relations with the clinical sites and to ensure that these sites are conducting our trials in compliance with the protocol, our instructions and applicable regulations. If these third parties fail to perform satisfactorily or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the 28 Table of Contents clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. Further, the FDA may inspect some of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials, or our third-party vendors’ sites, to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to current good clinical practices. If we or the FDA determine that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with, or have not conducted our clinical trials according to applicable regulations, we may be forced to delay, repeat or terminate such clinical trials. Any delay, repetition or termination of our clinical trials could be very costly and materially harm our business. If third-party suppliers upon whom we rely or may rely to provide us with the critical raw material for Veronate do not perform or fail to comply with strict regulations, our clinical trials for, and the commercialization of, Veronate could be terminated, delayed, or adversely affected. We purchase the vast majority of the plasma we use to manufacture Veronate from DCI Management Group, LLC, or DCI, under a long-term supply contract. While we have also recently entered into long-term supply arrangements with two other suppliers to provide us with plasma for our planned commercialization of Veronate, we expect in the near-term to depend primarily on DCI for the majority of this critical raw material. Although our agreements with these other suppliers are intended to reduce our reliance on one supplier, in the event that DCI is not able to supply us pursuant to our contract with them, particularly in the near term, it may be difficult for us to find a sufficient supply of plasma from other vendors on commercially acceptable terms without undue delays, which could adversely impact our costs, as well as our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of Veronate in the future to meet commercial demands. The number of potential donors whose plasma contains a sufficient concentration of naturally occurring human antibodies to manufacture Veronate is limited. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our current or future third-party suppliers will be able to provide us with an adequate quantity of plasma to manufacture a sufficient amount of Veronate for future clinical trials or for commercial purposes. The collection, shipment, storage and testing of plasma, including screening procedures for plasma donors, are subject to extensive and strict regulation by the FDA and other foreign regulatory authorities. In the event that DCI, or any other existing or future supplier, fails to comply with these stringent regulations, it could be precluded from shipping us an adequate supply of plasma, which could adversely impact our ability to manufacture Veronate on a timely basis, if at all. If third-party contract manufacturers, upon whom we rely to manufacture our product candidates do not perform, fail to manufacture according to our specifications or fail to comply with strict regulations, our clinical trials and the commercialization of our products could be terminated, delayed, or adversely affected. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We have contracted with third-party manufacturers to make clinical trial materials for our product candidates in development. We also intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers, at least for the foreseeable future, to manufacture our products if and when they are approved for sale. Our reliance on third-party contract manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues. Some of these risks include: • The number of potential contract manufacturers that are able to produce our product candidates is limited. • Our third-party contract manufacturers may place a priority on the manufacture of their, or other customers’ products. • Our contract manufacturers may fail to perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business. • The manufacture of biologic products requires compliance with numerous and strict safety, quality and regulatory standards. Our contract manufacturers may not produce our product candidates according to 29 Table of Contents their own standards, our specifications, cGMP requirements, or may otherwise manufacture material that we or the FDA may deem to be unusable in our clinical trials or commercially. • Our manufacturers’ plants may be closed as a result of regulatory sanctions or a natural disaster. • To date, our product candidates have been manufactured by our contract manufacturers in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. If our contract manufacturers are unable to increase the manufacturing scale of, or increase the capacity for, our product candidates, we may experience a shortage in supply, or the cost to manufacture our products may increase to the point where it adversely affects the profitability of our products. Further, regulatory approval or the commercialization of our products may be delayed. We cannot assure you that our current contract manufactures will be able to manufacture our products at a suitable scale, or we will be able to find alternative manufacturers acceptable to us who can do so. • Notwithstanding our contract manufacturers’ compliance with all specifications and cGMP requirements, antibody-based products are known to be susceptible to the aggregation or clumping of their protein content from time to time. In the event that an unacceptable level of protein aggregation occurs in any manufactured lot of our clinical trial materials or commercial products, that respective lot may not be usable, which could delay our clinical trials or result in the revocation of FDA approval, if obtained, or otherwise force us to suspend or cease marketing of such products . Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit their performance, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers, or us, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us or the drug manufacturer from the production of other third-party product. These sanctions include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In the event that we need to change our third-party contract manufacturers, our clinical trials and the commercialization of our products could be delayed, adversely affected or terminated, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues. Due to regulatory restrictions inherent in a BLA, the manufacture of many biologic-based products, including our product candidates, is generally sole-sourced. In accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, changing manufacturers for these products generally requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures and may require further clinical trials. Changing our current or future contract manufacturers may be difficult for us and could be costly and take several years to complete, which could result in our inability to manufacture our products or product candidates for an extended period of time. Further, we do not have any alternate manufacturing plans for our product candidates at this time. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find alternative manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our third-party contract manufacturer for Veronate is a potential competitor. If we fail to maintain or renew our manufacturing agreement with this manufacturer, the development and commercialization of Veronate could be delayed or adversely affected. In December 2001, we entered into a ten-year contract manufacturing agreement with Nabi Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., or Nabi, to be our contract manufacturer for Veronate. Nabi is a publicly-held company that discovers, develops, manufactures and markets antibody-based products. Nabi is developing antibody-based products to prevent or treat S. aureus and S. epidermidis infections, therefore we consider Nabi to be a potential competitor. Under our contract manufacturing agreement with Nabi, we may not be able to engage any other third party to manufacture Veronate until our agreement with Nabi is terminated. 30 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain or renew our manufacturing agreement with Nabi, the development and commercialization of Veronate could be delayed or adversely affected. If we fail to establish marketing and sales capabilities or fail to enter into effective sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. If approved by the FDA, we intend to sell Veronate, and possibly Aurexis, through our own hospital-based sales force in the United States and establish relationships with other companies to commercialize them in other countries around the world. Although we have a Vice President of Sales and Marketing, we currently have no infrastructure to support such activities, and have only limited experience in the commercialization of hospital-based pharmaceutical products. Therefore, our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to develop a capable hospital-based sales force and suitable marketing capabilities in a timely manner. The development of our own hospital-based sales force and marketing capabilities will result in us incurring significant costs before the time that we may generate significant revenues. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified marketing or sales personnel, or be able to establish an effective hospital-based sales force. To the extent that we enter into marketing and sales arrangements with other companies to sell, promote or market our products in the United States or abroad, our product revenues, which may be in the form of direct revenue, a royalty, or a spilt of profits, will depend on their efforts, which may not be successful. Hospital-based products are typically distributed through third-party distributors rather than directly through the organization conducting the sale and marketing of the product. Our ability to accurately forecast the sales of our products will be directly linked to the quality and timeliness of inventory information provided by these third-party distributors. If government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate reimbursement or coverage for our products, our revenues and potential for profitability will be harmed. In the United States and most foreign markets, our product revenues will depend principally upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payers for our products. Such third-party payers include government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved drugs or pharmaceutical products. We may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that our products will be reimbursed in part or at all by any third-party payers. Domestic and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drugs. In some foreign markets, governments control prescription drugs’ pricing and profitability. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put downward pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our products in the future, which would limit our revenues and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products may change before our product candidates are approved for sale, which could further limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for our products. Biologic-based products, such as Veronate and Aurexis, tend to be relatively expensive as compared to other pharmaceutical products. As such, these products may be more susceptible to the pressures associated with pricing challenges from and reimbursement status with third-party payers. 31 Table of Contents Veronate is a blood product derived from human plasma. The administration of blood products could result in the transmission of infectious diseases or impurities that could prevent us from selling Veronate or expose us to liability. Veronate, our lead product candidate, is an immune globulin. Immune globulins contain antibodies derived from human plasma, which is a component of blood. Certain pathogenic organisms and impurities may be found in blood. While the collection, testing, processing, manufacture, and storage of immune globulins like Veronate are designed to eliminate harmful pathogens or other impurities, we cannot assure you that this will prevent the transmission of either known or unknown pathogens or impurities to patients that are treated with Veronate. If Veronate were suspected or known to have transmitted any harmful pathogens or impurities, approval of Veronate may be delayed, suspended or withdrawn, we could be forced to recall Veronate or certain lots of it, and we may be subject to product liability claims. Further, if public concern arises that any blood product other than Veronate or blood products in general may transmit a disease or unknown pathogens or impurities, approval for Veronate may be delayed or withdrawn, or the use of Veronate may be reduced or limited due to these concerns. If our products are approved, yet do not gain meaningful acceptance in their intended markets, we are not likely to generate significant revenues or become profitable. Even if we successfully develop our product candidates and obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to sell them in the future, they may not gain market acceptance or utilization among physicians and patients, or reimbursement or coverage from third-party payers. The degree of market acceptance for any product that we commercialize will depend on a number of factors, including: • the therapeutic efficacy or perceived benefit of the product; • the level of reimbursement available to cover the cost of the product; • the cost of the product to the user or payer; • the product’s potential advantages over existing or alternative therapies; • the actual or perceived safety of similar classes of products; • the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and • the scope of the product label approved by the FDA. There can be no assurance that hospitals or physicians will choose to administer our products to the intended patient population. If our products do not achieve meaningful market acceptance, or if the market for our products proves to be smaller than anticipated, we may not generate significant revenues or ever become profitable. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business prospects could be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patents or rights to patents and maintain their validity; • protect our trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights or patents. We will be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of biopharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to ultimately enforce our patents or proprietary rights. Any patents that we own or licenses we have rights to may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide us with the protection 32 Table of Contents against competitors that we anticipate. Accordingly, we may be forced to engage in costly and time consuming litigation in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Our pending patent applications, or those we may file or license from third parties in the future, may not result in patents being issued. Until a patent is issued, the claims covered by the patent may be narrowed or removed entirely and therefore we may not obtain adequate patent protection. As a result, we may face unanticipated competition, or conclude that without patent rights the risk of bringing product candidates to the market is too great, thus adversely affecting our operating results. Because of the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a product candidate, it is possible that before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. Also, patent rights may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek to protect these, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our technology or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could seriously impair our competitive position and harm our business. We may become involved in costly litigation in order to enforce patent rights or protect trade secrets or know-how that we own or license. If a third party claims we are infringing on its intellectual property rights, we could incur significant litigation or licensing expenses, or be prevented from further developing or commercializing our products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property claims, United States Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are lengthy, costly and time-consuming and their outcome is uncertain. We may become involved in litigation in order to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Scientific research relating to surface proteins located on pathogenic organisms has been conducted for many years in the areas in which we have focused our research and development efforts, which has resulted in third parties having a number of issued patents and still-pending patent applications. Patent applications in the United States are, in most cases, maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to products similar to our product candidates may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing related product development and commercialization and may be subject to damage awards. If we become involved in any patent litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expense, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. A detrimental outcome of such litigation or proceedings may expose us to loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling our product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. Our current and future product candidates may be covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, in which case we would need to obtain a license or sublicense to these rights in order to 33 Table of Contents develop or commercialize them. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain the required licenses or sublicenses, we could encounter delays in the development of our product candidates or be prevented from manufacturing and commercializing our products. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent, we could be compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. In cases where we have in-licensed intellectual property, our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such agreements could harm our business. Biosynexus, Inc. filed suit against us in January 2003 in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, alleging the misappropriation of trade secrets, which we purportedly received through a large, nationally recognized third-party contract research organization and utilized in the design of clinical trials for Veronate. In its suit, Biosynexus is seeking injunctive relief as well as financial damages. In July 2003, the court denied Biosynexus’ request for injunctive relief, and further ruled that we made a preliminary showing that we had not misappropriated, converted or benefited from the use of any property, including trade secrets, of Biosynexus. The court’s ruling also indicated that Biosynexus had not shown a substantial likelihood that it would ultimately prevail on the merits of its case at trial. In August 2003, Biosynexus filed a notice of appeal of the court’s ruling. However, we are unaware of any further action by Biosynexus in this matter. We can provide no assurance that the appeal filed by Biosynexus will not be pursued or be successful or that we will not be subject to similar suits in the future. As described under “Competition,” MedImmune, Inc. has licensed intellectual property rights owned by Biosynexus and has indicated it intends to develop a monoclonal antibody against staphylococcal organisms for use in the pediatric market. We cannot determine if this development will have an impact on this litigation. If we succeed in implementing our strategy, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. If we successfully advance our product candidates, particularly Veronate, through clinical development and regulatory approvals, we will need to add or expand our research and clinical development, regulatory, manufacturing, supply-chain logistics, accounting, information technology and marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. If our operations expand, we may need to hire additional personnel and add corporate functions or capabilities that we currently do not have. Our ability to manage our operations and rapid growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, information technology, and reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to implement such improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in these systems and controls as a result of our assessments pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In the event we cannot successfully manage our growth, there may be an adverse impact on our business. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, advisors or consultants, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates or otherwise manage our business effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel, directors, and academic scientists and clinicians as advisors or consultants. We are currently dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers. In order to pursue our product development and commercialization strategy, we will need to attract and hire additional personnel with experience in a number of disciplines, including clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, sales and marketing, drug reimbursement, accounting, finance, human resources and information systems. Although we have not had material difficulties in attracting and retaining key personnel in the past, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. If we lose any key employees, or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel or advisors, our business may be harmed. 34 Table of Contents We have experienced losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur such losses for the foreseeable future and we may never become profitable. Since inception through December 31, 2005, we have incurred a cumulative deficit of approximately $141.5 million. Our losses to date have resulted principally from: • costs related to our research programs and the clinical development of our product candidates; and • general and administrative costs relating to our operations. We anticipate incurring losses for at least the foreseeable future as we further develop our product candidates, particularly Veronate and Aurexis, which will require us to conduct significant research and laboratory testing, conduct clinical trials, as well as seek regulatory approvals. In addition, we intend to establish a hospital-based sales force in the United States to market and sell Veronate, and potentially Aurexis and our other product candidates. When and if we implement our commercialization plan we also expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase as we add more personnel to support our operations. We cannot assure you that we will generate direct or royalty revenue from the sale or products or ever become profitable. We may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize product candidates that are the subject of collaborations if our collaborators do not perform. We expect to enter into and rely on collaborations or other arrangements with third parties to develop and/or commercialize our product candidates outside of the United States and in certain circumstances, in the United States. If we do so, such collaborators may not perform as agreed, or may fail to comply with strict regulations or elect to delay or terminate their efforts in developing or commercializing our product candidates. We currently have collaborations with Dyax to jointly develop a monoclonal antibody that targets MSCRAMM proteins on enterococci and with Wyeth to develop a vaccine to prevent staphylococcal infections in humans. We believe these collaborations are desirable for us to fund research and development activities, provide a suitable manufacturer, and obtain regulatory approvals and to successfully commercialize any product candidates that result from these collaborations. We cannot assure you that any product candidates will emerge from our relationships with Dyax or Wyeth, or other collaborations we may enter into in the future related any of our other product candidates. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or develop innovative products, which could harm our business. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about genetics and develop new technologies and approaches to treating and preventing disease. Our current and potential competitors generally include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions, particularly those companies that make antibiotic products. Specifically we are aware that Nabi, MedImmune, Inc., and NeuTec PLC are developing protein-based product candidates, including antibodies, enzymes and peptides, for the prevention and treatment of bacterial and fungal infections. In certain cases these companies have commenced clinical trials for these product candidates. Some of these companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, for attracting investigators and sites capable of conducting our clinical trials and for licenses of proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective, less expensive or easier to 35 Table of Contents administer than ours. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for their drug candidates more rapidly than we can. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commercialize their drugs before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that could delay the ability of competitors to market certain products. We cannot assure you that product candidates resulting from our research and development efforts, or from joint efforts with our collaborators, will be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ existing products or products under development. Several of our product candidates may target Orphan Drug indications. If we fail to obtain approval for an Orphan Drug indication before one of our competitors does, we may be prevented from selling our products for a period of time. Our lead product candidate, Veronate, has been granted Orphan Drug status by the FDA for the reduction of nosocomial bacteremia caused by staphylococci in very low birth weight, or VLBW, infants. In Europe, the EMEA has granted Veronate Orphan Medicinal Product or OMP designation for the prevention of infections in infants who are 32 weeks or less gestational age. We believe that several of our other product candidates may also target Orphan Drug indications, which are indications where the intended patient population in the United States is less than 200,000 individuals. We believe that Nabi and MedImmune, Inc. have been granted FDA Orphan Drug status and European OMP designation for their antibody-based products that are being developed for the prevention of infections in premature infants. If we are not the first to receive FDA approval for our Orphan Drug indications, we may be prevented from having our product candidates approved in those indications for up to seven years. In addition, even if we are first to obtain approval for our Orphan Drug indications, clinicians may choose to use products that have been approved for other indications. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us for uninsured liabilities or such claim exceeds our insurance coverage, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $5.0 million. In the event any of our product candidates are approved for sale by the FDA, we anticipate that we may need to increase our product liability coverage. Such insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims that may be brought against us in the future. We may not be able to acquire or maintain adequate insurance coverage at a commercially reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Defending any product liability claim or claims could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations will be subject to significant fluctuations, which will make it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. Until we have successfully developed and commercialized a product candidate, we expect that substantially all of our revenues will result from payments we receive under collaborative arrangements, or license agreements pursuant to which we grant others the right to our intellectual property. To date, these payments have been in the form of up-front license and ongoing research and development support payments and from time to time, payments under materials transfer agreements. We may not be able to generate additional revenues under existing or future collaborative agreements. Furthermore, payments potentially due to us under our existing and any future collaborative arrangements, including any milestone and up-front payments, are subject to significant fluctuation in both timing and amount, or may never be earned or paid. Therefore, our historical and current revenues may not be indicative of our ability to achieve additional payment-generating milestones. In addition, our supply and manufacturing agreements with respect to Veronate and Aurexis require us to purchase certain minimum amounts that we may not 36 Table of Contents need and therefore may not be cost effective to us. As of December 31, 2005, our minimum purchase commitments amounted to an aggregate of $17.3 million, assuming the relevant agreements are not cancelled or terminated by us. We expect that our operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of the timing of our research and development efforts, the execution or termination of collaborative arrangements, the initiation, success or failure of clinical trials, the timing of the manufacture of our product candidates, or other development related factors. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the revenues or results of operations for any other period. If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant financial loss. Our research and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials and medical waste. Notwithstanding the regulations controlling the use of these materials and the safety procedures we undertake, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or exposure, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment in us could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since we completed our initial public offering in June 2004. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including but not limited to: • disclosure of our or our competitors’ clinical trial status or data; • the approval or commercialization of new products by us or our competitors, and the disclosure thereof; • announcements of scientific innovations by us or our competitors; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • public concern about the safety of our product candidates, products or similar classes of products; • litigation to which we may become subject; • disclosures of any favorable or unfavorable regulatory developments concerning our clinical trials, manufacturing, or product candidates; • actual or anticipated variations in our annual and quarterly operating results; • changes in general conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in drug reimbursement rates or government policies related to reimbursement; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • new regulatory legislation adopted in the United States or abroad; • our failure to achieve or meet equity research analysts’ expectations or their estimates of our business, or a change in their recommendations concerning our company, the value of our common stock or our industry in general; • termination or delay in any of our existing or future collaborative arrangements; • future sales of equity or debt securities, including large block trades or the sale of shares held by our directors or management; 37 Table of Contents • changes in accounting principles; • failure to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of publicly-owned companies, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq National Market and the market for biotechnology stocks in particular, have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for a particular company’s stock has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that company. Market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Due to this volatility, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In April 2006, we anticipate the availability of top-line data from our pivotal Phase III trial of Veronate. In the event that the trial does not achieve its primary endpoint, or the data are otherwise perceived as unsatisfactory, the price of our common stock could suffer a significant decline. If we raise additional capital in the future, your ownership in us could be diluted. We anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations. Any additional equity financings we may undertake could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those shares being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a credit facility or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would have rights senior to your rights as a common stockholder. Future sales of shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline, even if our business is doing well. The sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, particularly with respect to our directors, executive officers, and other insiders or their affiliates, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. Insiders continue to have substantial control over us, which could delay or prevent a change in our control. As of December 31, 2005, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 38% of our outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise significant influence over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including: • the appointment of directors; • the appointment, change or termination of management; • any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; • the approval of some mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or • the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders. 38 Table of Contents Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or our management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Delaware, the state we are incorporated in, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in management that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions: • establish a classified, or staggered, board of directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to remove and elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 