Item 1A. Risk Factors,” Hospira's cost of borrowing could increase, and Hospira's ability to obtain new financing could be negatively impacted.Lending institutions, including those associated with Hospira's $1.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2016, may suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships. As a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could affect the actual availability of credit under Hospira's revolving credit facility, or Hospira's ability to obtain other financing on equally favorable terms. Moreover, insurance companies and other financial institutions may suffer losses, which could affect the cost and availability of insurance coverage. If one or more of these events occurred, Hospira's liquidity may prove to be insufficient, cost of borrowing may increase and Hospira's financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.Demand for Hospira's products may decrease due to adverse economic conditions, resulting in the loss of jobs or healthcare coverage, thereby affecting an individual's ability to pay for elective healthcare. Adverse economic conditions may also increase Hospira's customers' cost-containment efforts, and affect Hospira's customers' solvency or their ability to obtain credit to finance their purchases of Hospira's products, which could reduce Hospira's revenue and cause a decrease in Hospira's profitability. These economic conditions may also adversely affect certain of Hospira's suppliers, which could cause a disruption in its ability to produce products.Hospira's long-lived asset balances are significant, and a decline in the value of assets may adversely affect Hospira's financial position or results of operations.The values of Hospira's property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investments are significant and can be affected by various factors such as increased competition, development discontinuation, delay in regulatory approval, product quality, changes in business strategies, decline in stock price, the impact of continuous improvement activities, disposition transactions, and business combinations. As a result of these factors or other events, Hospira has impaired goodwill and certain intangible assets and may further have to impair these assets or change estimated useful lives, which may have a material adverse effect on Hospira's financial position or results of operations.In addition, Hospira regularly reviews its investments, including equity and cost-based investments, to determine when a significant event or change in circumstance has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. Hospira considers numerous factors, including factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry of the investee, and general equity market trends. Hospira also considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. Volatility in the global equity markets and other factors could adversely impact the fair value of Hospira's investments and, as a consequence, could result in a charge for an other than temporary decline in value, which could have an adverse effect on Hospira's financial position and results of operations.The manufacture of Hospira's products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospira's business could suffer.The manufacture of Hospira's products and products Hospira produces for third parties is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, quality control, storage or distribution of Hospira's products and products Hospira manufactures for third parties for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, manufacturing quality concerns, or problems with raw materials, electromechanical, software and other components, supplier issues, and natural disaster related events or other environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. Problems could also lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, failure to supply penalties, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches of products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, voluntary recalls, corrective actions or product liability related costs may also be incurred. 18Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of products could materially disrupt Hospira's business and harm its sales and profitability.Certain of Hospira's products are produced at a single manufacturing facility, and Hospira faces risks inherent in manufacturing its products at a single facility or a single site. Any disruption would likely lead to substantial production delays. If this occurs, Hospira may be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. As a result, Hospira may suffer loss of market share, which may not be recaptured, and its reputation may be harmed, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. During the last few years, Hospira voluntarily and temporarily shut down certain of its production lines or slowed the release of certain products to respond to certain quality issues, as described in the section captioned “Certain Quality and Product Related Matters” in “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this report. Such disruptions have adversely impacted, and continue to adversely impact, Hospira's ability to manufacture and sell its products. If Hospira experiences any further significant interruptions of manufacturing or further slowdown in the release of products at any of its facilities, such an interruption could further materially and adversely affect Hospira's ability to manufacture and sell its products.Hospira's joint venture, Zydus Hospira Oncology Private Limited (“ZHOPL”), operates a plant in India, which manufactures a number of cytotoxic drugs for Hospira. In 2012, products manufactured by ZHOPL accounted for approximately 6% of Hospira's net sales. Hospira shares managerial control of the joint venture on an equal basis with the joint venture partner, Cadila. Hospira may become involved in disputes with the joint venture partner, or encounter difficulties at the facility, that could disrupt or halt the operations at the facility, which could adversely impact Hospira's financial condition or results of operations.Hospira can experience higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising commodity prices.Hospira uses commodities, such as platinum, resins and other petroleum‑based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil, fuel, and other gases also significantly affect Hospira's costs for freight and utilities. Platinum, resins, other petroleum-based materials, oil, fuel, and other gas prices are volatile. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions or hedging activities, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability.Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials and other components, and third‑party finished goods. Hospira may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospira's ability to manufacture or sell products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability.The manufacture of Hospira's products requires raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredients and electromechanical and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. While efforts are made to diversify Hospira's sources of materials and components, some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, Hospira relies on certain proprietary components available exclusively from ICU Medical and API from Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. ("Orchid"). For a more detailed description of those relationships, see the section captioned “Raw Materials, Components and Purchased Products” in “Item 1. Business.” In 2012, Hospira entered into a definitive agreement (the "Agreement") to acquire a penem and penicillin API business from Orchid. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals and it is possible that the Agreement may be further modified by Hospira India and Orchid prior to closing to reflect additional negotiations and regulatory considerations. Hospira expects to close the transaction in the first half of 2013, but can give no assurance that the transaction will be consummated during that time period or at all. Orchid will continue to supply Hospira cephalosporin API following the pending closing.In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding materials, polyvinyl‑chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospira's production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its I.V. and pre-mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses in the packaging of some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time-consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are often necessary.While Hospira works closely with its suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply, Hospira cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In the past, Hospira's business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum‑based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient 19quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospira's products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Hospira's continuous improvement activities have resulted, and may continue to result, in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospira's business and may not result in the intended improvement or cost savings.Hospira's strategy, in part, has been to improve margins and cash flow to drive sustained growth. In addition to cost-reduction initiatives, Hospira has taken various other actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing, research and development, and other facilities. These actions have resulted in significant charges to Hospira's results of operations and cash expenditures.Hospira aims to achieve a culture of continuous improvement that will enhance its efficiency, effectiveness, and competitiveness and substantially improve its cost base. Continuous improvement activities could result in additional charges and cash expenditures, including capital expenditures and charges associated with Hospira's expansion in India of specialty injectable manufacturing capacity and capital expenditures related to modernizing and streamlining its existing facilities. These expansion and modernization efforts may not be completed in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all, and Hospira may not realize the desired benefits of these efforts. If Hospira does not realize the expected savings and benefits from its continuous improvement efforts, its profitability may be adversely affected. Hospira has been implementing integrated business planning systems to better align commercial demand to manufacturing operations to improve operating efficiencies and margins. Hospira's implementation of such systems continues to evolve and until such systems are fully operational, Hospira may not be able to optimally or adequately project market demand for certain products, resulting in product shortages, or may produce excess products, resulting in excess inventory and/or inventory loss. Cost-reduction and continuous improvement activities are complex, and if Hospira does not successfully manage these activities, its operations and business could be disrupted and Hospira may incur more costs than anticipated. As a result, Hospira's sales, margins and profitability may be adversely impacted.Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospira's business and performance.Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure to manage its finances, to manufacture, to enable compliance and to market and sell its products. These systems are vulnerable to interruption or failure due to the age of certain systems, the introduction of viruses, malware, security breaches, fire, power loss, system malfunction, network outages and other events, which may be beyond Hospira's control. System interruptions or failures could impact Hospira's ability to manufacture its products or continue its business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's operations and financial performance. In addition, a cyber‑attack that bypasses Hospira's information technology security systems causing a security breach may lead to a material disruption of its information technology business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. The age of Hospira's information technology systems, as well as the level of Hospira's protection and business continuity or disaster recovery capability, varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospira's capital investment levels in its information technology systems will increase over the next few years as Hospira expects to upgrade its networks, replace certain old, fully depreciated systems and fortify its technical security capability.Hospira conducts operations outside of the U.S. and is subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may cause its sales and profitability to decline.Sales in markets outside the U.S. comprised approximately 31% of 2012 net sales. Hospira anticipates that sales from outside the U.S. will continue to represent a significant portion of net sales. The additional risks associated with Hospira's operations outside the U.S. include:(i)fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (for a discussion of the ways and extent to which Hospira attempts to mitigate such risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this report);(ii)multiple legal or regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospira's international product commercialization efforts;(iii)differing local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements, or changing government reimbursement practices;(iv)trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements or other controls or restrictions;(v)difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations outside the U.S.;20(vi)differing labor regulations or work stoppages, strikes, slow-downs or other forms of labor or union activity at Hospira's facilities;(vii)complying with laws and regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, anti-bribery laws including the U.S. FCPA, and the U.K. Bribery Act and anti-boycott laws;(viii)loss of business through government tenders that are held annually in many cases or through other government action;(ix)potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, including legislative changes concerning taxation of income earned outside of the U.S.;(x)economic instability, including the European financial crisis or other economic instability in other parts of the world and the impact on Hospira's receivables;(xi)disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic area, due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers, caused by natural disasters, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of future terrorist activities or military action, and the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; and(xii)diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.In addition, Hospira operates in many countries outside the U.S. through distributors or through a direct sales presence, and those countries may have been assigned a low Corruption Perception Index indicating a high level of corruption by Transparency International (a non-governmental agency that monitors and publicizes corporate and political corruption in international development). While Hospira has programs in place to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations impacting Hospira and its distributors, if it were determined that Hospira or a distributor was not in compliance with certain laws and regulations, Hospira could be subject to civil and/or criminal liability and other material adverse effects. Hospira's success in certain international markets will depend on the efforts and performance of its distributors. Moreover, if certain of those distributor relationships are unsuccessful, the costs to terminate such distributor relationship and/or to re-establish a customer base could adversely affect Hospira's profitability in certain regions. These risks could have an adverse effect on Hospira's ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the U.S. and could adversely affect Hospira's profitability.Hospira is involved in various lawsuits and proceedings that could negatively affect its business.Hospira is involved in various claims and legal proceedings, including in some instances when Hospira operated as part of Abbott. In some instances, these claims and proceedings could preclude the continued sale and marketing of Hospira's products or otherwise adversely affect operations, profitability or liquidity. In addition, Hospira has been named as a defendant in class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative lawsuits. See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report for more information regarding these lawsuits. These matters could have an adverse effect on Hospira's business, profitability or financial condition. In addition, there could be an increase in the scope of these matters and there could be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future. In light of these uncertainties, Hospira cannot assure that the outcome of these matters will not result in charges in excess of any established accruals.In the past, Hospira has been involved in investigations related to improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products. Hospira could be subject to these investigations or lawsuits again in the future, and these matters could have an adverse impact on Hospira.Hospira may incur product liability losses, or become subject to other lawsuits related to its business, and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses.Hospira's business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs, medical devices and other products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts, recalls or corrective actions, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers.Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin-off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospira's risk management policy, Hospira carries third‑party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible which provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for 21the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability or other claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's profitability and financial condition.If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed.Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospira's intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Principal products and their related trademarks are discussed in the section captioned “Products” in “Item 1. Business” of this report. In 2012, PrecedexTM represented approximately 8% of Hospira's Net sales, and in the Americas segment, PrecedexTM represented approximately 14% of specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line net sales. The U.S. patents covering PrecedexTM expire on July 15, 2013 (U.S. Patent 4,910,214) and March 31, 2019 (U.S. Patent 6,716,867). In 2012, Hospira completed its final Phase III pediatric clinical study required to fulfill the Pediatric Written Request and to support a pediatric use indication and submitted the data from the trials to the FDA. Based on this submission, and while no absolute assurance can be given, Hospira expects to receive a six month extension to the patents covering PrecedexTM. Hospira is in patent litigation concerning the proprietary product, PrecedexTM and the U.S. patents covering the product, which is described in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”Most of Hospira's products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospira's intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospira's products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospira's intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain or maintain sufficient protection for its intellectual property, Hospira's competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales.If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products.Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a “first-to-market” position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions and litigation could be costly and time consuming, and may not be successful.Hospira has made certain abbreviated new drug applications (“ANDA”) with Paragraph IV certifications that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira product, or were invalid or unenforceable, in the U.S. and equivalent filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators contesting these certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs.Hospira is currently involved in patent‑related disputes with companies over Hospira's attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products. Once Hospira has final approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals, Hospira may decide to commercially market these products while the ultimate disposition of legal proceedings has not concluded. If Hospira's products are ultimately found to infringe the patent rights of another company, Hospira may be subject to significant damages, which may be based on a reasonable royalty or the lost profits from the sale of the branded product and/or an injunction preventing Hospira from further sales. Third parties may claim that Hospira's products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time-consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's profitability and financial condition.Changes in the funded status or costs of Hospira's pension or post-retirement benefit plans could adversely affect Hospira's financial position and results of operations.The funded status of Hospira's pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to developments and changes in actuarial and other related assumptions. Decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly with respect to equity securities, and a change in the actual rate of return on plan assets can result in significant changes to the expected return on plan assets in 22the following year and, as a consequence, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. In addition, changes in assumptions, such as discount rates, mortality rates, healthcare cost trend rates and other factors, may lead to significant increases in the value of the respective obligations. Assumption changes could affect the reported funded status of Hospira's plans and, as a result, could result in higher funding requirements and net periodic benefit costs. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on Hospira's financial position and results of operations.Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospira's results of operations and result in greater-than-anticipated liabilities.Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospira's income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. In addition, operations in certain jurisdictions may operate at a loss requiring management estimates of expected utilizations of the related deferred tax assets in future years. Should these operations fail to reach appropriate levels of profitability, these estimates could periodically change, necessitating the establishment of valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets, and increasing tax expense. Moreover, changes in or interpretations of tax laws and regulations (including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings), changes in investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state and foreign tax audits, may affect Hospira's profitability and financial condition.Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S., where a portion of its income is earned. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospira's overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospira's future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions.Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospira's belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authority's determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and related liability balances are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.The stock market can be volatile and fluctuations in Hospira's operating results, as well as other factors, could cause its stock price to decline.The stock market has experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations, which significantly impact the market prices of securities issued by many companies. Market fluctuations could adversely affect Hospira's stock price. Moreover, Hospira's sales and operating results may fluctuate and vary from period to period due to the risk factors set forth herein. As a result, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Hospira's stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to its quarterly or annual results, annual projections and the impact of these risk factors on Hospira's operating results or financial position.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.