ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, our financial condition, and our ability to raise additional capital in the future or ever become profitable. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to our Development of our Product Candidates All of our product candidates are still in the early stages of development and remain subject to numerous preclinical studies, clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully develop our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. Our failure to successfully develop one or more of our product candidates may have a material adverse effect on us, and possibly cause us to cease operations. To date, we have not commercially marketed, distributed or sold any product candidates. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to develop our product candidates through early-stages of development and ultimately later commercialize our product candidates successfully. We plan to initiate a Phase I clinical trial evaluating single and multiple ascending doses of FV-100 in healthy volunteers in the first half of 2008. We also plan to select a lead clinical candidate for our HIV integrase and HCV polymerase inhibitor programs in 2008. We are also currently screening a number of the HCV and CMV compounds for potency and cytoxicity to determine whether one or more of these can serve as a lead clinical candidate. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy preclinical studies and clinical testing and obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Despite our efforts, our product candidates may not: • offer therapeutic or other benefits over existing, comparable drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; • have the desired effects or may include undesirable effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics; • meet applicable regulatory standards; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or • be successfully commercialized by us or by partners. Even if we achieve success in earlier stage clinical trials as we did with Veronate, there can be no assurance that later-stage trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early trials. Accordingly, the results from our programs that have completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials. Our product candidates will require significant additional research and development efforts, substantial financial resources, and regulatory approvals prior to advancing into further clinical development or being commercialized by us or collaborators. We cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will successfully progress through the drug development process or will result in clinically or commercially viable products. We do not expect any of our drug candidates to be commercially available to us or collaborators for at least several years. If we are unable to successfully develop our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. 27 Table of Contents If preclinical studies or clinical trials for our product candidates, including those that are subject to collaboration agreements, are unsuccessful or delayed, we could be delayed or precluded from further developing or ultimately commercialization of our product candidates. In order to further advance the development of and ultimately receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates, we must conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Preclinical studies and clinical testing are expensive, complex, may take many years to complete, and its outcome is highly uncertain. Delays, setbacks or failures may occur at any time, or in any phase of preclinical studies or clinical development process for a number of reasons, including concerns about safety or toxicity, a lack of demonstrated efficacy or superior efficacy over other similar products that have been approved for sale or are in more advanced stages of development, poor trial design, and issues related to the manufacturing process of the materials used to conduct the clinical trials. The results of preclinical studies and prior clinical trials of our product candidates are not necessarily predictive of the results we may see in later-stage clinical trials. In many cases, product candidates in clinical development may fail to show desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully demonstrated so in preclinical studies or earlier stage clinical trials. In addition, we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical studies and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our drug candidates, including: regulators or IRBs may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; enrollment in our clinical trials may be delayed or proceed at a slower place than we expected or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipated, resulting in significant delays; our third party contractors whom we rely on for conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; we might have to suspend or ultimately terminate our clinical trials if participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; IRBs or regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate preclinical studies or clinical trials for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; and the supply or quality of our product candidates necessary to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate. Even if the data collected from preclinical studies or clinical trials involving our product candidates satisfactorily demonstrate safety and efficacy, such results may not be sufficient to support the submission of an IND application to support the initiation of clinical trials in humans or a NDA, or BLA to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the United States, to sell the product. We must comply with extensive government regulations in order to advance our product candidates through the clinical development process and ultimately obtain and maintain marketing approval for our products in the United States and abroad. Our product candidates and any products for which we receive FDA approval to advance through clinical development and ultimately sell are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic and foreign government regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Our product candidates are also subject to similarly extensive regulation by foreign governments to the extent we seek to develop them in those countries. We or our collaborators must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, if applicable, with preclinical and clinical data that appropriately demonstrate our product candidates’ safety and efficacy before they can be approved for the targeted indications. None of our product candidates have been approved for sale in the United States or any foreign market, and we cannot predict whether we will obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate we are developing or plan to develop. The regulatory review and approval process can take many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity, novelty of, and medical need for the product, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and vigilance, and generally involves ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or Phase IV clinical trials. In addition, we or our collaborators may encounter delays in or fail to gain regulatory approval for our product candidates based upon additional governmental regulation resulting from future legislative or administrative action or changes in FDA policy or interpretation during the period of product development. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to advance our product candidates through clinical development and ultimately commercialize them may: 28 Table of Contents • adversely affect the ability to further develop or commercialize any of our product candidates; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborators may have or attain; and • adversely affect the receipt of milestones payments and royalties from the sale of our products or product revenues. Furthermore, any regulatory approvals, if granted, may later be withdrawn. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any time, or if post-approval safety concerns arise, we or our collaborators may be subject to restrictions or a number of actions, including: • delays, suspension or termination of the clinical trials related to our products; • refusal by the FDA to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. Additionally, we or our collaborators may voluntarily halt the development of any product candidate or withdraw any approved product from the market if we believe that it may pose an unacceptable safety risk to patients, or if the product candidate or approved product no longer meets our business objectives. The ability to develop or market a pharmaceutical product outside of the United States is contingent upon receiving appropriate authorization from the respective foreign regulatory authorities. Foreign regulatory approval processes typically include many, if not all, of the risks associated with the FDA as described above and may include additional risks. We have limited experience in the development of antiviral product candidates and therefore may encounter difficulties developing our product candidates or managing our operations in the future. We recently acquired or licensed several antiviral drug development programs that are based upon chemical compounds, also referred to as small molecules. Historically, we have focused our resources on the development and commercialization of antibody-based product candidates, which are composed of biologic materials and are generally considered to be large molecules. Therefore, we have limited experience in the discovery, development and manufacturing of antiviral small molecule compounds. In order to successfully develop our antiviral pipeline and manage this shift in operational focus, we have begun to expand and supplement our research, clinical development, regulatory, medicinal chemistry, virology and manufacturing functions through the addition of key employees, consultants or third-party contractors to provide certain capabilities and skill sets that we currently do not possess, including but not limited to virology, medicinal chemistry, drug formulation and pharmacology. We cannot assure you that we will attract or retain such qualified employees, consultants or third-party contractors with the appropriate antiviral small molecule drug development experience. In the event we cannot attract such capabilities or successfully develop our antiviral pipeline or manage these operational changes, our business will be materially harmed. In order to develop our product candidates, we expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future, and the timing and extent of this need will depend on many factors, some of which are very difficult to predict and others that are beyond our control, including: • our ability to successfully advance the development of our drug candidates and programs, most of which we have recently obtained; 29 Table of Contents • the time and cost to complete the requisite preclinical studies and clinical trials and receive regulatory approval to advance our product candidates through the various phases of clinical development; • the amount of future payments, if any, received or made under existing or future license, collaboration or similar arrangements; • the costs associated with protecting or expanding our patent and other intellectual property rights; and • whether we acquire licenses to new products, development programs or compounds in the future through in-licensing, acquisition or merger, and the stage of development of any such development programs. If any of our product development efforts are successful, we may receive licensing fees, milestone payments and royalties pursuant to licensing and collaboration agreements we may enter into, which could lessen the need for additional capital, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product development efforts or that we will be able to enter such agreements. We anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with proceeds we expect to receive from existing license and collaboration agreements will enable us to operate for a period of at least 24 months from the date of this filing. We have no other committed sources of additional capital at this time. We cannot assure you that funds will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us at all or, on terms that we find acceptable we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate research and development efforts or clinical trials on any or all of our product candidates. We may also be forced to curtail or restructure our operations, obtain funds by entering into arrangements with licensees, collaborators or partners on unattractive terms, or sell or relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates or our intellectual property that we would not otherwise sell or relinquish in order to continue our operations. If we are unable to retain or, in the future, attract key employees, advisors or consultants, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates or otherwise manage our business effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain qualified management and personnel, directors and academic scientists and clinicians as advisors or consultants. We are currently highly dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers and senior management. In order to develop our preclinical and clinical-stage development programs, we will need to attract and retain personnel with experience in a number of disciplines, including research and development, clinical testing, government regulation of pharmaceuticals, manufacturing and chemistry, business development, accounting, finance, human resources and information systems. Although we have not had material difficulties in retaining and attracting key personnel in the past, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel in the future on acceptable terms due to our limited financial resources, if at all. If we lose any key employees, or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, advisors or consultants, our business may be harmed. If third party vendors upon whom we rely to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials do not perform or fail to comply with strict regulations, the clinical trials for our product candidates may be terminated, delayed, or fail. We have limited experience in conducting and managing preclinical studies and clinical trials. We have historically relied and intend to continue to rely on third parties, including clinical research organizations, consultants and principal investigators, to assist us in managing, monitoring and conducting our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We rely on these vendors and individuals to perform many facets of the development process, including IND-enabling studies, the recruitment of sites and patients for participation in our clinical trials, to maintain positive relations with the clinical sites and to ensure that these sites are conducting our trials in compliance with the protocol, our instructions and applicable regulations. If these third parties fail to perform satisfactorily or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into 30 Table of Contents alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates may be delayed or prove unsuccessful. Further, the FDA may inspect some of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials, or our third-party vendors’ sites, to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to current good clinical practices. If we or the FDA determine that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with, or have not conducted our clinical trials according to applicable regulations, we may be forced to delay, repeat or terminate such clinical trials. Any delay, repetition or termination of our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials could be very costly, result in the elimination of a development program, and materially harm our business. If third-party contract manufacturers, upon whom we rely to manufacture our product candidates do not perform, fail to manufacture according to our specifications, or fail to comply with strict regulations, our preclinical studies or clinical trials and the development of our product candidates could be terminated, delayed, or adversely affected. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We have historically contracted with third-party manufacturers to produce the preclinical and clinical trial materials we use to test our product candidates in development, and we intend to continue to rely on third-party contract manufacturers, at least for the foreseeable future, to manufacture these preclinical and clinical trial materials. Our reliance on third-party contract manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials, the regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues. Some of these risks include: • the manufacture of products requires compliance with numerous and strict safety, quality and regulatory standards. Our contract manufacturers may not produce our product candidates according to their own standards, our specifications, current good manufacturing procedures, or cGMP, or may otherwise manufacture material that we or the FDA may deem to be unusable in our clinical trials; • our contract manufacturers may be unable to increase the scale of, or increase the capacity for, our product candidates, we may experience a shortage in supply, or the cost to manufacture our products may increase to the point where it adversely affects the cost of our products. We cannot assure you that our contract manufacturers will be able to manufacture our products at a suitable scale, or we will be able to find alternative manufacturers acceptable to us that can do so; • our third-party contract manufacturers may place a priority on the manufacture of their own products, or other customers’ products; • our contract manufacturers may fail to perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business; • our manufacturers’ plants may be closed as a result of regulatory sanctions or a natural disaster. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit their performance, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers, or us, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us or the drug manufacturer from the production of other third-party products. These sanctions include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In the event that we need to change our third-party contract manufacturers, our preclinical studies, clinical trials and the development of our products could be delayed, adversely affected or terminated or result in higher costs. Due to regulatory restrictions inherent in an IND, NDA or BLA, the manufacture of our product candidates may be 31 Table of Contents sole-sourced. In accordance with cGMPs, changing manufacturers may require the re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures and may require further preclinical studies or clinical trials. Changing our current or future contract manufacturers may be difficult for us and could be costly and take years to complete, which could result in our inability to manufacture our products or product candidates for an extended period of time or possibly additional clinical trials. Our product candidates may have undesirable side effects when used alone or in combination with other products that may prevent their regulatory approval or limit their use if approved. We must demonstrate the safety of our product candidates to obtain regulatory approval to advance their clinical development or to market them. In preclinical studies and clinical trials conducted to-date our product candidates have been generally been well tolerated, however these studies and trials involved a small number of subjects. We may observe adverse or significant adverse events in future preclinical studies or clinical trials of these product candidates in the future. Any side effects associated with our product candidates in development may outweigh their potential benefit and result in the termination the development program, prevent regulatory approval or limit their market acceptance if they are approved. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or develop innovative products, which could harm our business. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about genetics and develop new technologies and scientific approaches to treating and preventing disease. Our current and potential competitors generally include, among others, major multi-national pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Some of the companies that currently market products that would compete with our product candidates include, but are not limited to: GlaxoSmithKline, Norvatis and Merck in the shingles market; Pfizer, Merck and Gilead in the HIV market, and Roche and Schering-Plough in the hepatitis C market. In addition there are several other competitors developing other early-stage drug candidates that may compete with our product candidates in the future. Most of these companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial or corporate resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products, particularly those based upon small molecules. Future developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We also face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, for attracting investigators and sites capable of conducting our clinical trials and for licenses of proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective, less expensive or easier to administer than ours. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we can. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commercialize their products before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that could delay the ability of competitors to market certain products. We cannot assure you that product candidates resulting from our research and development efforts, or from joint efforts with our collaborators, will be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ existing products or products under development. We have experienced losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur such losses for the foreseeable future and we may never become profitable. Since inception (May 13, 1994) through December 31, 2007, we have incurred a cumulative deficit of approximately $214 million. Our losses to date have resulted principally from: • costs related to our research programs and the clinical development of our product candidates; and • general and administrative costs relating to our operations. 32 Table of Contents We anticipate incurring losses for the foreseeable future if we further develop our product candidates, which will generally require us to conduct significant research and laboratory testing, conduct extensive and expensive clinical trials, and seek regulatory approvals. We cannot assure you that we will ever generate direct or royalty revenue from the sale of products or ever become profitable. Based on our current strategy, our quarterly and annual operating costs and revenues may become highly volatile, and comparisons to previous periods will be difficult. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations will be subject to significant fluctuations, which will make it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. Until we have successfully developed a product candidate, we expect that substantially all of our revenue will result from payments we receive under collaborative arrangements or license agreements where we grant others the right to use our intellectual property or know-how. We may not be able to generate additional revenues under existing or future collaborative agreements. Furthermore, payments potentially due to us under our existing and any future collaborative arrangements, including any milestone and up-front payments, are intermittent in nature and are subject to significant fluctuation in both timing and amount, or may never be earned or paid. Further some of our collaboration arrangements allow our partner to terminate the agreement on relatively short notice. Therefore, our historical and current revenues may not be indicative of our ability to achieve additional payment-generating milestones in the future. We expect that our operating results will also vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of newly entered into in-licensing agreements and the acquisition of FermaVir, our re-focused research and development efforts, the execution or termination of collaborative arrangements, the initiation, success or failure of preclinical and clinical trials, the timing of the manufacture of our product candidates or other development related factors. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the revenues or results of operations for any other period. We do not have drug discovery capabilities, and therefore we are dependent on third parties to discover additional product candidates for our pipeline. We have relied and will continue to rely on third parties to discover new product candidates through sponsored research or in-licensing. We will face substantial competition for in-licensing or sponsored research opportunities from others, many of which may have greater resources then we have. Additional, opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, the terms may not be acceptable. In addition many compounds that appear promising in early preclinical studies fail to progress to become lead product candidates or ever advance into clinical trials. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the discovery of any additional product candidates that would be suitable for further preclinical or clinical development. The discovery of additional product candidates requires significant time, research and preclinical studies, as well as a substantial commitment of resources. There is a great deal of uncertainty inherent in our research efforts and, as a consequence, our ability to fill our product pipeline with new additional product candidates may not be successful. The requirements of being a publicly-traded company may strain our corporate infrastructure and increase our overall operating costs. The obligations associated with being a publicly-traded company require significant additional expenditures and place additional demands on our management, administrative, operational, and finance resources as we comply with the reporting requirements of a public company. If we are unable to accomplish our objectives in a timely and effective manner, our ability to comply with the rules that apply to public companies could be impaired and ultimately affect our business. We will continue to incur or may have substantial increases in our expenses as a result of being a public company. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, which is expensive and requires the attention of our limited management resources. 33 Table of Contents If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us for uninsured liabilities or such claim exceeds our insurance coverage, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our existing or future product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $5.0 million. In the event any of our product candidates is approved for sale by the FDA and commercialized, we may need to increase our product liability coverage. Such insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims that may be brought against us in the future. We may not be able to acquire or maintain adequate insurance coverage at a commercially reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Defending any product liability claim or claims could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant financial loss. Our research and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials and medical waste. Notwithstanding the regulations controlling the use of these materials and the safety procedures we undertake, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or exposure, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources. Risks Relating to the Commercialization of our Product Candidates We may delay or terminate the development of a product candidate if the perceived market and commercial opportunity does not justify further investment, which could materially harm our business. Even though the results of preclinical and clinical studies and trials may support further development of one or more of our drug candidates, we may delay or terminate the future development of a drug candidate at any time for strategic, business, or financial reasons, including the determination that the emerging profile of the drug candidate is such that it may not gain meaningful acceptance or otherwise provide any competitive advantages in its intended indication or market. If the actual or perceived therapeutic benefits of FV-100 are not different from competing generic drugs, we may terminate the development of FV-100, or our ability to generate significant revenue may be limited and our potential profitability could be harmed. Valtrex®, Famvir® and Zovirax® are existing drugs use to treat shingles patients. Zovirax is a generic drug and Valtrex and Famvir will both be generic drugs by 2010. Accordingly, if FV-100 doesn’t offer significant therapeutic benefits over these existing comparable drugs, including the incidence, severity and duration of shingles; reduction of PHN; more convenient dosing schedules and avoidance of adverse effects in renal function patients then we terminate or delay the future development of a FV-100 at any time. There can be assurance that later stage clinical trials will provide therapeutic benefits over existing therapies, as perceived in our early stage preclinical studies and clinical trials. If we fail to enter into collaborations to commercialize our product candidates, or sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, or otherwise establish marketing and sales capabilities, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. 34 Table of Contents We currently have no infrastructure to support the commercialization of any of our product candidates, and have little, if any, experience in the commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Therefore, our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to access or develop a capable sales force and suitable marketing capabilities in a timely manner. We anticipate that we will need to establish relationships with other companies to commercialize some or all of our products in North America and in other countries around the world. To the extent that we enter into license and collaboration agreements, or marketing and sales arrangements with other companies to sell, promote or market our products in the United States or abroad, our product revenues, which may be in the form of indirect revenue, a royalty, or a split of profits, will depend on their efforts, which may not be successful. The development of third party or internal sales force and marketing capabilities will result in us incurring significant costs before the time that we may generate significant revenues. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified third parties or marketing or sales personnel, or be able to establish an effective sales force. We may be unable to successfully develop product candidates that are the subject of collaborations if our collaborators do not perform, terminate our agreements, or delay the development of our product candidates. We have in the past and expect to continue to enter into and rely on collaborations or other business arrangements with third parties to develop and/or commercialize our existing and future product candidates. Such collaborators or partners may not perform as agreed, fail to comply with strict regulations or elect to delay or terminate their efforts in developing or commercializing our product candidates, even though we have performed our obligations under the arrangement. We cannot assure you that any product candidates will emerge from our relationships with Wyeth or 3M Company or any other new collaboration we may enter into in the future related to any of our other product candidates. If government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate reimbursement or coverage for our products or those we develop through collaborations, our revenues and potential for profitability will be harmed. In the United States and most foreign markets, our product revenues and the inherent value of our product candidates and products will depend largely upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payers for such product candidates or products. Such third-party payers include government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved drugs or pharmaceutical products. We may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that our products will be reimbursed in part, or at all, by any third-party payers. Domestic and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drugs. In some foreign markets, governments control prescription drugs’ pricing and profitability. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put downward pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our products in the future, which would limit our revenues and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products may change before our product candidates are approved for sale, which could further limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for our products. If any products that we develop independently or through collaborations are approved but do not gain meaningful acceptance in their intended markets, we are not likely to generate significant revenues or become profitable. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and we or a partner or collaborator obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to sell our products in the future, they may not gain market acceptance or utilization among physicians and patients. The degree of market acceptance for any of our product candidates that may be commercialized will depend on a number of factors, including: 35 Table of Contents • the therapeutic efficacy or perceived benefit of the product; • the level of reimbursement available to cover the cost of the product; • the cost of the product to the user or payer; • the product’s potential advantages over existing or alternative therapies; • the actual or perceived safety of similar classes of products; • the effectiveness of sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and • the scope of the product label approved by the FDA. There can be no assurance that physicians will choose to administer our products to the intended patient population. If our products do not achieve meaningful market acceptance, or if the market for our products proves to be smaller than anticipated, we may not generate significant revenues or ever become profitable. Even if our collaborator or we achieve market acceptance for our product candidates, we may experience downward pricing pressure on the price of our drugs because of generic competition and social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs to treat HIV and HCV. Several FDA-approved products are already available in generic form or face patent expiration in the next several years in the markets and indications we are pursuing, including therapies for the treatment of shingles and HIV. We expect to face competition from these generic drugs, including significant price-based competition. Further, pressure from AIDS awareness and other social activist groups whose goal it is to reduce HIV drug prices, particularly in less developed nations, may also put downward pressure on the prices of HIV drugs, including our integrase program. Similar trends of generic competition or social or political pressure may occur for our HCV program, which would result in downward pressure on prices. If conflicts arise between our collaborators and us, our collaborators may act in their best interest and not in our best interest, which could adversely affect our business. Conflicts may arise with our collaborators if they pursue alternative therapies for the same diseases that are targeted by intellectual property rights we have licensed to them. Competing products, either developed by our existing or future collaborators, may result in development delays or the withdrawal of their support for our product candidates. Additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the progress of, or other activities related to, the clinical development of a product candidate, the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the collaborative arrangement. Similarly, we may disagree with a collaborator as to which party owns newly developed products. Should an agreement be terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration, we may not be able to obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving. If patent applications that we, or our licensors, have filed or may file in the future with respect to our development programs are not issued or the claims are restricted, our business prospects could be harmed. Many patents which we expect to rely upon to protect our intellectual property rights, particularly with respect to our antiviral drug development programs, have been filed but not yet issued. These pending patent applications, or those we may file or license from third parties in the future, may not result in patents being issued. Further, until a patent is issued, any or all claims covered by the patent may be narrowed or removed entirely, and therefore we may ultimately not obtain adequate patent protection. As a result, we may conclude that without certain patent rights, the risk and cost of further developing and commercializing certain product candidates is too great, thus adversely affecting our business prospects. If we are unable to adequately protect or expand our intellectual property, our business prospects could be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain intellectual property rights and patents, or rights to intellectual property and patents, and maintain their validity; • protect our trade secrets; and 36 Table of Contents • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights or patents. We will be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of drug and biopharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to ultimately enforce our patents or proprietary rights. Therefore, any issued patents that we own or have rights to may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide us with the protection against competitors that we anticipate. The degree of future protection for our proprietary intellectual property rights is uncertain because issued patents and other legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we, or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to engage in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; • our, or our licensors’ pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our, or our licensors’ issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • third parties may design around our or our licensors’ patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside the scope of our or our licensors’ patents; or Because of the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a product candidate, it is possible that before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire or such patent rights may remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. Also, patent rights may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, we may not be able to prevent a third party from infringing our patents in a country that does not recognize or enforce patent rights, or that imposes compulsory licenses on or restricts the prices of life-saving drugs. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we or our licensors do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the products or technologies we own or have licensed. In addition, we may not have total control over the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license from others. Accordingly, we may be unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any pending or issued patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. We cannot assure you as to the degree of protection that will be afforded by any of our issued or pending patents, or those licensed by us. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek to protect these, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our technology or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could seriously impair our competitive position and harm our business. We may become involved in costly litigation in order to enforce patent rights or protect trade secrets or know-how that we own or license. If a third party claims we are infringing on its intellectual property rights, we do not have the freedom to operate 37 Table of Contents under our patents and we could incur significant expenses, or be prevented from further developing, or commercializing our product candidates. Our success will largely depend on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights of third parties. This is generally referred to as having the freedom to operate. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property claims, United States Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are lengthy, costly and time-consuming and their outcome is highly uncertain. We may become involved in litigation in order to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others, or to determine whether we have the freedom to operate with respect to the intellectual property rights of others. Patent applications in the United States are, in most cases, maintained in secrecy until 18 months after the patent application is filed. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to products similar to our product candidates may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal fees and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing the development and commercialization of a product candidate and may be subject to injunctions and/or damage awards. If we become involved in any patent litigation, interference or other legal proceedings, we will incur substantial expense, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. A negative outcome of such litigation or proceedings may expose us to loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling our product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. Our current and future product candidates may be covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, in which case it would need to obtain a license or sublicense to these rights in order to have the appropriate freedom to operate and develop or commercialize them. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain the required licenses or sublicenses, we could encounter delays in the development of our product candidates, or be prevented from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates at all. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent and do not have the freedom to operate, we could be subject to injunctions, and/or compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. In cases where we have in-licensed intellectual property, our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such agreements could harm our business. We may be unable to enter into future license, collaborations or other transactions with respect to our Aurexis program, which could harm our business. Currently, we do not intend to continue to independently advance the clinical development of Aurexis. We plan to leverage our capabilities and intellectual property associated with our Aurexis program by pursuing licenses, corporate collaborations or other business arrangements that could provide financial and other synergistic capabilities to support the further development and potential of the Aurexis program. We have several existing license and collaboration agreements based upon our MSCRAMM protein platform. These include an agreement with Wyeth for the development of staphylococcal vaccines and with 3M Company for the development of diagnostics products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enter into any additional licenses, collaborations, or other transactions related to Aurexis on terms acceptable to us or at all. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock The price of our common stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment in us could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since the completion of our initial public offering in June 2004. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including but not limited to: • our ability to successfully advance our drug development programs through preclinical and clinical development activities; • disclosures of any favorable or unfavorable data from our preclinical studies or clinical trials, or other regulatory developments concerning our clinical trials, manufacturing or product candidates; • our ability to manage our cash burn rate at an acceptable level; • the approval or commercialization of new products by us or our competitors, and the disclosure thereof; • announcements of scientific innovations by us or our competitors; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • public concern about the safety of our product candidates, products or similar classes of products; • Litigation to which we may become subject; • actual or anticipated variations in our annual and quarterly operating results; • changes in general conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in drug reimbursement rates or government policies related to reimbursement; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • new regulatory legislation adopted in the United States or abroad; • changes in patent legislation in the United States or abroad • our failure to achieve or meet equity research analysts’ expectations or their estimates of our business, or a change in their recommendations concerning us, the value of our common stock or our industry in general; • termination or delay in any of our existing or future collaborative arrangements; • future sales of equity or debt securities in connection with raising capital; • the sale of shares held by our directors or management; • the loss of our eligibility to have shares of our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Global or Capital Market due to our failure to maintain minimum listing standards; • changes in accounting principles; • failure to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of publicly-owned companies, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and more specifically the NASDAQ Global and Capital Markets and the market for biotechnology stocks in particular, have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for a particular biotechnology company’s stock has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that company. Market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Due to this volatility, investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the price they paid. We currently do not meet the standards for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market, and there is no guarantee that we will meet these standards in the future. If we are delisted the value of your investment may substantially decrease. To maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock must have a closing bid price of $1.00 39 Table of Contents for ten consecutive days before July 8, 2008, in addition to meeting other continued listing requirements of NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). If we are unable to meet the closing bid price requirement before July 8, 2008, we may apply to transfer our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market if our common stock satisfies all of the criteria under Marketplace Rule 4310(c) for initial inclusion on such market, other than compliance with the minimum bid price rule. If our application is approved, the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules provide that we will be afforded an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the minimum bid price rule while listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our shares will likely trade on the NASDAQ OTC Market. We may consider a reverse stock spilt of our common stock to increase the bid price above $1.00. Any future delisting or change in market class from NASDAQ may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, significantly limit the liquidity of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional funds. Future issuances of shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline, even if our business is doing well. The issuance of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales could occur, particularly with respect to our directors, executive officers, and other insiders or their affiliates, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. If we raise additional capital in the future, your ownership in us could be diluted. We anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital in the future to support or fund our current strategy and our planned operations. Any issuance of additional equity we may undertake in the future could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those shares being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a credit facility or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as a common stockholder. Insiders and affiliates continue to have substantial control over us, which could delay or prevent a change in control of us. As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 33% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise significant influence over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including: • the appointment of directors; • the appointment, change or termination of management; • any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; • the approval of some acquisitions or mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or • the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or our management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Delaware, the state in which we are incorporated, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in management that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions: • establish a classified, or staggered, Board of Directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; 40 Table of Contents • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to remove and elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 