Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business The major portion of our business relating to distribution of Samsung products in Argentina has ended as a result of a tariff enacted by Argentina in 2009 and a related regulation effected in 2011 which substantially increased the cost at the point of sale for certain imported electronics, including the products we sell, and we may not be able to replace those sales. Argentina, the country where we have historically sold a significant amount of OEM products and where we generated 87% of our net sales in 2009, passed a new tariff in November 2009 affecting certain imported electronics, including wireless handsets. As a consequence, much of that business was lost in 2010 and our sales in 2010 declined by 69% compared to 2009. Then, in February 2011, Argentina enacted a further import regulation effective March 6, 2011 that signaled the closing stage of our Samsung distribution business, and sales in 2011 declined by 52% compared to 2010. Our distribution agreement with Samsung was scheduled to expire December 31, 2011 but was extended until March 31, 2012 to accommodate the orderly conclusion of this business. We are working diligently now to replace the lost distribution revenues with higher margin sales of our verykool® products through expansion into new geographic markets in Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa and Latin America. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this effort or whether it can be accomplished in a timely manner or at all. The loss or reduction in orders from principal customers or a reduction in prices we are able to charge these customers will have a negative impact upon our financial results. Our three largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2011, represented 14%, 13% and 13% of our net sales, respectively. The second and third largest customers were both Samsung distribution customers, and, as discussed above, we expect that business to conclude by the end of the first quarter in 2012. In addition, the markets we serve and are targeting for future business are subject to significant price competition and our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase products from us. For these and other reasons, such as competitive pricing and competitive pressures, customers may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than we have been able to charge in the past, and they could terminate our relationship or reduce their purchases from us in favor of lower-priced alternatives. In addition, we have experienced losses of certain customer bases through industry consolidation, a trend that may increase in our markets, and in the ordinary course of business. The further loss of any of our principal customers, a reduction in the amount of product or services our principal customers order from us or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have been experiencing net losses and expect that net losses will continue for an uncertain period. If we continue to operate at a loss, our business may not be financially viable. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our net loss was $2.5 million. We have now reported five consecutive loss years with an aggregate net loss of $19.6 million. As of December 31, 2011, our cash and restricted cash balances were $12.4 million, we had net working capital of $18.6 million and we had no outstanding debt. Given the continued economic slowdown, our business now being focused on proprietary products without established markets and the uncertainty of most global markets, we cannot adequately evaluate the financial viability of our business or our long-term prospects with any certainty. While our business plan includes a number of objectives to achieve profitability, if we do not succeed in these objectives, our business might continue to experience losses and may not be sustainable in the future. We may not succeed in our development, introduction and establishment of proprietary products in our markets. The development, introduction and establishment of new products in our proprietary verykool® line requires a significant investment in research and product development, manufacturing and marketing. Our development 8 Table of Contents team in Beijing China has had some successes with delivery of new products, but has also encountered delays and design challenges, and may not be successful in developing the differentiated products we need to ultimately implement our strategy successfully. In addition, our new products may not be well received by our customers or the end-users. Further, failure to adequately carry out our product marketing, sales and delivery strategy or otherwise be successful in promoting our verykool® brand may result in inventory obsolescence, including inventory which we have built in anticipation of market acceptance of our products. If any of these events occur, our financial condition and operating results would be negatively impacted. Our operating results may vary significantly, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our operating results are influenced by a number of factors that may cause our sales and operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. These factors include: • the addition or loss of customer or supplier relationships; • product availability and cost, including our internally developed products; • market competition and selling prices; • the cost of promotions, price protection and subsidies; • foreign government policies and stability; • the timing of introduction of new products by our suppliers and competitors; • purchasing patterns of customers in different markets; and • general economic conditions. Our operating performance may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Between January 1, 2011 and March 14, 2012, our stock price has fluctuated between $1.28 and $0.50 per share, and we anticipate that significant volatility in our stock price will continue for the foreseeable future. The termination of our secured credit facility in the fall of 2010 has restricted the availability of liquidity. Historically, one of our primary sources of liquidity has been borrowing from bank lines of credit. Our secured bank credit facility with Wells Fargo Trade Capital LLC terminated on September 22, 2010. While we believe that our current cash resources and working capital are sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future, we do not currently have a permanent letter of credit facility, which may impede our procurement operations. Failure to secure a replacement bank credit facility on acceptable terms could adversely affect our ability to support future growth in our business. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if we and/or our manufacturers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, or if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect proprietary rights used in our verykool ® product line. Because our proprietary verykool® products are comprised of complex technology, we may be subject to or impacted by litigation regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our manufacturers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third parties have sought broad injunctive relief in our industry, which could ultimately limit our ability to sell our verykool® products. If any litigation arises and we do not succeed in such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be 9 Table of Contents available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain or all of our verykool® products if we or our manufacturers are subject to a final injunction or other restrictions. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our manufacturers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, but we may not be successful in our negotiations. Also, any manufacturer’s indemnity may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us due to a potentially infringing verykool® product, and a manufacturer may not choose to accept a license or to modify or replace its products with non-infringing products, which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a manufacturer or influence any ultimate outcome that may adversely impact our sales, such as an injunction or other restrictions that relating to our verykool® products. In addition, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our or our manufacturers’ proprietary information or develop similar technology relating to our verykool® products independently. Furthermore, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited, especially in certain foreign countries, such as China where adherence to enforcement of intellectual property rights is not as prevalent or available as in other countries, such as the United States. Unauthorized use of our or our manufacturers’ intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our or our manufacturers’ intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. All of our revenues from continuing operations during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 were, and for the foreseeable future will continue to be, generated outside of the United States in countries that may have volatile currencies or other risks. We now engage in all of our significant sales activities in territories and countries outside of the United States, specifically in Latin America and Asia Pacific. Historically, the majority of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars and therefore may be impacted by changes in the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign economies where we conduct business. Certain sales transactions in Mexico are denominated in the Mexican peso, which has been a very volatile currency. Further, the fact that we sell all of our products into, and have developed and manufactured products in, a number of territories and countries other than the United States exposes us to, among other things, increased credit risks, customs duties, import quotas and other trade restrictions, potentially greater and more unpredictable inflationary and currency pressures, labor risks and shipping delays. Changes may occur in social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently develop and sell products. United States laws and regulations relating to investment and trade in foreign countries could also change to our detriment. We are particularly exposed to the fact that all our R&D and manufacturing activities are in China, which may change its own policies on business and foreign investment in companies there. Any of these factors could have material adverse effects on our business and operations. Also, although we purchase and sell products in U.S. dollars and do not engage in significant exchange swaps, futures or options contracts or other hedging techniques, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce demand for products sold in U.S. dollars. We cannot predict the effect that future exchange rate fluctuations will have on our operating results or financial position. We may in the future engage in currency hedging transactions, which could result in our incurring significant additional financial risks, including increased costs and losses resulting from these transactions. We may not be able to adequately respond to rapid technological changes in the wireless handset industry, which could cause us to lose customers. The technology relating to wireless handsets changes rapidly, resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. We are required to anticipate future technological changes in our industry and to continually identify, obtain and market new products that will satisfy evolving industry and customer requirements. Although we are now making significant investments in R&D to keep our proprietary verykool® products competitive in 10 Table of Contents terms of technology and features, there is no guarantee we will have success with this, which could materially affect our business. Competitors or manufacturers of wireless handsets may market products which have perceived or actual advantages over products that we market or which otherwise render those products obsolete or less marketable. Furthermore, if we do not adequately anticipate future technological changes, we may not establish appropriate supplier relationships or perform appropriate product development. These factors all pose significant risks to loss of customers and decreased sales and profitability. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivables could have a significant negative impact on our cash flow and financial condition. We offer open account terms to certain of our customers, both large and small, which may subject us to credit risks, particularly to the extent that our receivables represent sales to a limited number of customers or are concentrated in particular geographic markets. Although we have an accounts receivable insurance policy, this policy does not cover all accounts and may not cover 100% of the credit we extend. A substantial default by a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flow and results of operations. We rely on our information technology systems to function efficiently, without interruptions, and if they do not, customer relationships could be harmed. We are dependent upon our information systems to manage our business and to be responsive to our customers needs, and we plan to implement a new ERP system in 2012. These systems may experience interruptions, including interruptions of related services from third-party providers which may be beyond our control. Such business interruptions could cause us to fail to meet customer requirements and could result in the loss of business relationships. All information technology systems, both internal and external, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures, as well as third-party provider failures. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a systems failure or security breach or other problem with our information technology systems could negatively impact our operations and financial results. We face risks related to our dependence on third parties to manufacture our proprietary verykool® products. Our third party manufacturers typically provide limited or no warranties on their products. We generally pass through any warranties received from our manufacturers to our customers, and in absence of such warranties, we are solely responsible for the products. If a product we source from a manufacturer has delivery, quality or performance problems, our ability to provide satisfactory products to our customers could be disrupted (including, for example, during and after Chinese New Year) and our reputation could be impaired. We also may not be able to sell these products before payment is due our manufacturers or at prices above our cost. Any of these risks could have a negative impact on our business and operations. The wireless handset industry is intensely competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete against well-established competitors with greater resources. We compete for sales of wireless handsets and accessories with numerous well-established manufacturers, carriers and distributors, sometimes including our own suppliers and customers. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do and may market similar products or services directly to our customers or potential customers. Distribution of wireless handsets and accessories has generally had low barriers to entry. As a result, additional competitors may choose to enter our industry in the future. The markets for wireless handsets and accessories are characterized by intense price competition and significant price erosion over the life of a product. Many of our competitors have the financial resources to withstand substantial price competition and to implement extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in response to 11 Table of Contents efforts by additional competitors to enter into new markets or introduce new products. Our ability to continue to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to maintain our current industry relationships, with both manufacturers and carrier customers, as well as differentiate our verykool® branded products from the competition. We may not be successful in anticipating and responding to competitive factors affecting our industry or these relationships, including introduction of new products, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, new or changing outsourcing requirements, the entry of additional well-capitalized competitors, international, national, regional and local economic conditions, and competitors’ discount pricing and promotion strategies. As wireless telecommunications markets mature, and as we seek to enter into new markets in Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa and Latin America and offer new products, the competition that we face may change and grow more intense. We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, which may not afford adequate protection. We rely on trade secret laws to protect our proprietary knowledge, particularly, the information and technology related to our verykool® brand, our database of customers and suppliers and business terms such as pricing. In general, we also have non-disclosure agreements with our key employees and limit disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These measures may prove difficult to enforce and may not prove adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. We are dependent on a small number of personnel. Our success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of our executive officers, particularly Joseph Ram, our CEO and largest stockholder, and other key employees, including our verykool® design team members in China. If we are unable to retain our executive officers or other key personnel, it could impede our ability to fully and timely implement our business plan and future growth strategy. In addition, in order to support our continued growth, we will be required to effectively recruit, develop and retain additional qualified management. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. We may become subject to lawsuits alleging medical risks associated with our wireless handsets, the cost of which could be substantial. Lawsuits or claims have been filed or made against manufacturers of wireless handsets alleging possible medical risks, including brain cancer, associated with the electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets. There has been only limited relevant research in this area, and this research has not been conclusive as to what effects, if any, exposure to electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets has on human cells. Substantially all of our revenues are derived, either directly or indirectly, from sales of wireless handsets. We may become subject to lawsuits filed by plaintiffs alleging various health risks from our products. If any future studies find possible health risks associated with the use of wireless handsets, or if any damages claimed against us or a business partner is successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even an unsubstantiated perception that health risks exist could adversely affect our ability or the ability of our customers to market wireless handsets. Risks Related To Our Common Stock The market for our common stock is volatile and our stock price could decline. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares and could depress the market price of their shares. The stock market in general, including the market for telecommunications-related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. For example, the price of our common stock has fluctuated between $1.28 and $0.50 from January 1, 2011 through March 15, 2012. 12 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to remain volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, resulting in a substantial loss on their investment. We may be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market if we do not satisfy continued listing requirements. At various times over the last several years we faced potential delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market for failure to maintain the minimum $1.00 bid price per share requirement for continued listing. Because of our failure to comply with this requirement, on May 4, 2010 we were afforded a 180-day compliance period by The NASDAQ Stock Market to regain compliance. We later elected to transfer our listing to The NASDAQ Capital Market, which transfer was effective on November 4, 2010. This afforded us an additional 180-day compliance period until May 2, 2011 to demonstrate compliance. In January 2011, after the closing bid price of our stock had been at $1.00 per share or greater for 10 consecutive business days, we were notified by The NASDAQ Stock Market on February 1, 2011 that we had regained compliance. However, on April 5, 2011, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency letter indicating that, for the previous thirty consecutive business days, the bid price for our common stock had again closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until October 3, 2011, to regain compliance. The letter stated that the NASDAQ staff would provide written notification that we had achieved compliance with Rule 5550(a)(2) if at any time before October 3, 2011, the bid price of our common stock closed at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Although the bid price of our common stock did not rise to the $1.00 per share level for the specified number of days by October 3, 2011, we maintained our compliance with the appropriate listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market, with the exception of the bid price requirement. Therefore, on October 4, 2011, we received notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market that we were granted an additional 180 calendar day period, or until April 2, 2012, to regain compliance, but as of the date of this report have not complied with the bid price requirement. We intend to continue to monitor the bid price of our common stock and consider available options if it does not trade at a level likely to result in the Company regaining compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price rule by April 2, 2012. If we do not regain compliance by then, we would receive notice from the NASDAQ Staff that our common stock would be delisted. We may then appeal the Staff’s determination to delist our securities and would be required to provide a plan to regain compliance, which plan would normally include a near-term reverse stock split. However, there can be no assurance the Staff would grant our request for continued listing. If our common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares and our share price may be adversely affected. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as OTC Pink, OTCQX, OTCQB or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading would reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, thereby negatively impacting the share price of our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in 13 Table of Contents connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of stockholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual stockholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock, thereby negatively impacting the share price of our common stock. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies or effect a change in control of our company is limited, which may not be in our stockholders’ best interests. Some provisions of our charter and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of Maryland, under which we are incorporated, may delay or prevent a change in control of our company or other transactions that could provide our common stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock or that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include the ability of our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions can occur. These provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us even if the acquisition would be advantageous to our stockholders. Stockholders have been and may be diluted as a result of past or future offerings or other financings or equity grants. We have raised and may in the future raise additional capital through one or more public offerings, private placements or other financings involving our securities and have made or may make stock option and other equity incentive grants. As a result of these financings or grants, ownership interests in us may be diluted, potentially substantially. Our largest stockholder may have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders, and can significantly influence important corporate matters. As of March 1, 2012, our Chief Executive Officer Joseph Ram, beneficially owned approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Ram may be able to significantly influence corporate actions relating to: • controlling the composition of our board of directors; • controlling our management and policies; • determining the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may not be beneficial to other stockholders; and • acting in his own interest, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 14 Table of Contents 