ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, our financial condition, and our ability to raise additional capital in the future or ever become profitable. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business In light of the results of our pivotal Phase III Veronate clinical trial in April 2006 and the findings from an extensive review of the entire Veronate program, we have adopted a strategy to pursue other preclinical and clinical development opportunities through in-licensing, acquisition or merger in order to balance our development pipeline. We also intend to preserve our cash resources by reducing the amount we invest in our MSCRAMM-based development programs, and seek collaborative partners. We may be unable to identify and obtain product candidates or programs, or otherwise implement this strategy on a timely basis, if at all, which could harm our business. We cannot determine when, if ever, we will be successful in implementing this strategy. The number of pre-clinical or clinical-stage development programs available by way of in-licensing, acquisition or merger is limited, and there are numerous other large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies competing to obtain these same opportunities. Many of these companies have greater capital resources, experience and capabilities than we have. We may not be able to successfully identify or execute a transaction for any suitable in-licensing, acquisition or merger candidates, or we may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us or our stockholders through a stockholder vote. Any such transactions we may complete in the future or potential future strategic decisions we make may disappoint investors and depress the price of our common stock and the value of your investment in our common stock. This may require us to raise more money, incur non-recurring or other charges, and pose significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Further we may not be able to successfully integrate a transaction in a suitable time frame or at all, or achieve any perceived synergies. The successful completion of such a transaction or a combination of transactions may result in the stockholders not owning a majority of our shares and there may be a significant change in management and the board of directors. If we succeed in implementing our strategy of pursuing other preclinical and clinical development opportunities through in-licensing, acquisition or merger, we may encounter difficulties in managing our operations. If we are successful in obtaining other preclinical or clinical product candidates or programs through in-licensing, acquisition or merger, we may need to expand our research and clinical development, regulatory, manufacturing, accounting, information technology and marketing and sales capabilities through the addition of key employees or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain qualified employees, consultants or contractors that can support these additional needs. We may obtain product candidates or programs that are based on chemical compounds, or small molecules. Historically, we have been focused on the development of antibody-based product candidates, which are made from biologic materials and are generally considered to be large molecules, and therefore we have limited experience in development of small molecule candidates. We cannot assure you that we can attract or retain qualified employees, consultants or third-party contractors that have appropriate small molecule drug development experience. In the event we cannot successfully manage the changes, if they occur there may be an adverse impact on our business. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain, or, in the future, attract key employees, advisors or consultants, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates or otherwise manage our business effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain qualified management and personnel, directors, and academic scientists and clinicians as advisors or consultants. We are currently dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers and senior management. In order to pursue our strategy of obtaining preclinical and clinical-stage development opportunities through in-licensing, acquisition or merger, we will need to retain our personnel with experience in a number of disciplines, including research and development, clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, sales and marketing, accounting, finance, human resources and information systems. Although we have not had material difficulties in retaining and attracting key personnel in the past, we may not be able to continue to retain and attract such personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. If we lose any key employees, or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel or advisors, our business may be harmed. If we are successful in obtaining preclinical or clinical stage product candidates or programs through in-licensing, acquisition or merger activities, we may need additional cash, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We expect that we may need additional capital in the future, and the extent of this need will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • Our ability to obtain and successfully integrate preclinical or clinical stage product candidates or programs through in-licensing, acquisition or merger activities; • the successful and continued development of our MSCRAMM product candidates in preclinical and clinical testing independently or through collaboration; • the time it takes to receive regulatory approvals needed to market our product candidates; • the establishment of marketing and sales capabilities independently or through a third party and the costs to develop a corporate infrastructure to support the commercialization of our product candidates; • the level of market acceptance of our products; • future payments, if any, received or made under existing or possible future collaborative arrangements; • the costs associated with protecting and expanding our patent and other intellectual property rights; and • the need to acquire licenses to new products or compounds in the future. We anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments will enable us to operate for a period of at least 36 months from the date of this filing. If we are successful in implementing our strategy and obtain preclinical or clinical stage product candidates or programs through in-licensing, acquisition or merger, the number of months that our existing cash resources might allow us to operate may be significantly shortened. We have no other committed sources of additional capital at this time. We cannot assure you that funds will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on terms that we find acceptable, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate research and development efforts or clinical trials on any or all of our product candidates. We may also be forced to curtail or restructure our operations, obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborators or partners on unattractive terms, sell or relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates or our intellectual property that we would not otherwise sell or relinquish in order to continue our operations. If we are successful in pursuing other preclinical and clinical anti-infective development opportunities through in-licensing, acquisition or merger, your ownership in us could be diluted. We anticipate that we will need to issue additional shares of common stock in the future to support or fund our current strategy and our operations. Any issuance of additional equity we may undertake in the future could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower 19 Table of Contents than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those shares being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a credit facility or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as a common stockholder. No antibody-based products that target MSCRAMM proteins have been developed or approved. All of our existing product candidates, including Aurexis, target various MSCRAMM proteins. The use of MSCRAMM proteins to develop antibody-based products is an untested approach. These proteins have yet to be used by us or others to successfully develop any approved drugs. MSCRAMM proteins may ultimately prove to be a non-viable target for developing anti-infective or other drug candidates. We may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize product candidates that are the subject of collaborations if our collaborators do not perform. We expect to enter into and rely on collaborations or other arrangements with third parties to develop and/or commercialize our existing and future product candidates. Such collaborators may not perform as agreed, or may fail to comply with strict regulations or elect to delay or terminate their efforts in developing or commercializing our product candidates. We currently have collaborations with Wyeth to develop a vaccine to prevent staphylococcal infections in humans, with 3M Company to develop various diagnostic products using our MSCRAMM platform, and with Dyax Corp. to jointly develop a monoclonal antibody that targets MSCRAMM proteins on enterococci. We believe these collaborations are desirable for us to fund research and development activities, provide a suitable manufacturer, and to obtain regulatory approvals and to successfully commercialize any product candidates that result from these collaborations. We cannot assure you that any product candidates will emerge from our relationships with Wyeth, 3M Company, or Dyax or other collaborations we may enter into in the future related any of our other product candidates. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations will be subject to significant fluctuations, which will make it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. Until we have successfully developed and commercialized an existing or future product candidate, we expect that substantially all of our revenues will result from payments we receive under collaborative arrangements or license agreements where we grant others the right to use our intellectual property. We may not be able to generate additional revenues under existing or future collaborative agreements. Furthermore, payments potentially due to us under our existing and any future collaborative arrangements, including any milestone and up-front payments, are subject to significant fluctuation in both timing and amount, or may never be earned or paid. Therefore, our historical and current revenues may not be indicative of our ability to achieve additional payment-generating milestones. In addition, certain of our contract agreements provide for minimum commitment obligation amounts that we may not need and therefore may not be cost effective to us. As of December 31, 2006, our minimum future commitments, including debt and lease obligations amounted to an aggregate of $11.2 million, assuming the relevant agreements are not cancelled or terminated by us. We expect that our operating results will also vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of the timing of in-licensing, acquisition or merger, our research and development efforts, the execution or termination of collaborative arrangements, the initiation, success or failure of clinical trials, the timing of the manufacture of our product candidates, or other development related factors. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the revenues or results of operations for any other period. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business prospects could be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patents or rights to patents and maintain their validity; • protect our trade secrets; 20 Table of Contents • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights or patents. We will be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of biopharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to ultimately enforce our patents or proprietary rights. Any patents that we own or have rights to may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide us with the protection against competitors that we anticipate. Accordingly, we may be forced to engage in costly and time consuming litigation in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Our pending patent applications, or those we may file or license from third parties in the future, may not result in patents being issued. Until a patent is issued, the claims covered by the patent may be narrowed or removed entirely and therefore we may not obtain adequate patent protection. As a result, we may face unanticipated competition, or conclude that without patent rights the risk of bringing product candidates to the market is too great, thus adversely affecting our operating results. Because of the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a product candidate, it is possible that before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. Also, patent rights may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek to protect these, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our technology or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could seriously impair our competitive position and harm our business. We may become involved in costly litigation in order to enforce patent rights or protect trade secrets or know-how that we own or license. If a third party claims we are infringing on its intellectual property rights, we could incur significant litigation or licensing expenses, or be prevented from further developing or commercializing our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property claims, United States Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are lengthy, costly and time-consuming and their outcome is uncertain. We may become involved in litigation in order to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Patent applications in the United States are, in most cases, maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to products similar to our product candidates may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing related product development and commercialization and may be subject to damage awards. If we become involved in any patent litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expense, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. A detrimental outcome of such litigation or proceedings may expose us to loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing 21 Table of Contents and selling our product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. Our current and future product candidates may be covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, in which case we would need to obtain a license or sublicense to these rights in order to develop or commercialize them. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain the required licenses or sublicenses, we could encounter delays in the development of our product candidates or be prevented from manufacturing and commercializing our products. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent, we could be compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. In cases where we have in-licensed intellectual property, our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such agreements could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or develop innovative products, which could harm our business. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about genetics and develop new technologies and approaches to treating and preventing disease. Our current and potential competitors generally include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Some of these companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, for attracting investigators and sites capable of conducting our clinical trials and for licenses of proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective, less expensive or easier to administer than ours. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for their drug candidates more rapidly than we can. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commercialize their drugs before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that could delay the ability of competitors to market certain products. We cannot assure you that product candidates resulting from our research and development efforts, or from joint efforts with our collaborators, will be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ existing products or products under development. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us for uninsured liabilities or such claim exceeds our insurance coverage, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our existing or future product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to product liability claims. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $5.0 million. In the event any of our product candidates are approved for sale by the FDA, we anticipate that we may need to increase our product liability coverage. Such insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims that may be brought against us in the future. We may not be able to acquire or maintain adequate insurance coverage at a commercially reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Defending any product liability claim or claims could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant financial loss. Our research and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials and medical waste. Notwithstanding the regulations controlling the use of these materials and the safety procedures we undertake, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or exposure, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources. If the clinical trials for our product candidates, including those that are subject to collaboration agreements are unsuccessful or delayed, we could be delayed or precluded from further developing or ultimately selling our product candidates, or collaborated product candidates. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties, complexities and risks present in a development stage biopharmaceutical company. In order to receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates, we must conduct extensive pre-clinical and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Pre-clinical and clinical testing is expensive, takes many years to complete, and its outcome is highly uncertain. Delays, or clinical setbacks or failures may occur at any time, or in any phase of the pre-clinical or clinical development process for a number of reasons, including safety concerns, a lack of demonstrated efficacy, poor trial design, and manufacturing-related issues related to the material used to conduct the clinical trials. If the enrollment of patients into our clinical trials is delayed or proceeds at a slower pace than expected, our clinical trials will take longer, and cost more, to complete. The results of preclinical studies and prior clinical trials of our product candidates are not necessarily predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. In many cases, product candidates in later stages of clinical development may fail to show desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully demonstrated so in earlier clinical testing. Even if the data collected from clinical trials involving our product candidates are satisfactory and demonstrate safety and efficacy, such results may not be sufficient to support the submission of a BLA or NDA or to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the United States, or elsewhere. We have completed a 60 patient Phase II trial for Aurexis. The results of the Phase II trials were not statistically significant. There can be no assurance that the results of this trial are predictive of the outcome of later-stage trials for Aurexis. Even if our products are granted regulatory approval, post-approval or Phase IV clinical trials may demonstrate safety concerns that require removing the product from the marketplace. We must comply with extensive government regulations in order to obtain and maintain marketing approval for our products in the United States and abroad. Our product candidates and any products for which we receive FDA approval to sell are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic and foreign government regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Our product candidates are also subject to similar extensive regulation by foreign governments to the extent we seek to develop and commercialize them in those countries. We must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, if applicable, with clinical data that appropriately demonstrate our product candidates’ safety and efficacy in humans before they can be approved for the targeted indications. None of our product candidates has been approved for sale in the United States or any foreign market, and we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we are developing or plan to develop. The regulatory review and approval process can take many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity, novelty of, and need for the product, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and vigilance, and generally involves ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or Phase IV clinical trials. In addition, we may encounter delays in or fail to gain regulatory approval for our product candidates based upon additional governmental regulation resulting from future legislative or administrative action or changes in FDA policy or interpretation during the period of product development. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect our ability to further develop or commercialize any product candidates; 23 Table of Contents • diminish any competitive advantages that we may have or attain; and • adversely affect revenues or the receipt of royalties from the sale of our products. Furthermore, any regulatory approvals, if granted, may later be withdrawn. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any time, or if post-approval safety concerns arise, we may be subject to restrictions or a number of actions, including: • delays in clinical trials or the commercialization of our products; • refusal by the FDA to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. Additionally, we may voluntarily withdraw any approved product from the market if we believe that the product may pose a safety risk to patients, or if the approved product no longer meets our business objectives. The ability to market a pharmaceutical product outside of the United States is contingent upon receiving marketing authorization from the respective foreign regulatory authorities. Foreign regulatory approval processes typically include many, if not all, of the risks associated with the FDA as described above and may include additional risks. If third party vendors upon whom we rely to conduct our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials do not perform or fail to comply with strict regulations, the clinical trials for our product candidates may be terminated, delayed, or unsuccessful. We have limited experience in conducting and managing large clinical trials. We have historically relied and intend to continue to rely on third parties, including clinical research organizations, consultants and principal investigators to assist us in managing, monitoring and conducting our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. We rely on these vendors and individuals to assist in performing many facets of the development process, including toxicological studies, the recruitment of sites and patients for participation in our clinical trials, to maintain positive relations with the clinical sites and to ensure that these sites are conducting our trials in compliance with the protocol, our instructions and applicable regulations. If these third parties fail to perform satisfactorily or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. Further, the FDA may inspect some of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials, or our third-party vendors’ sites, to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to current good clinical practices. If we or the FDA determine that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with, or have not conducted our clinical trials according to applicable regulations, we may be forced to delay, repeat or terminate such clinical trials. Any delay, repetition or termination of our clinical trials could be very costly and materially harm our business. If third-party contract manufacturers, upon whom we rely to manufacture our product candidates do not perform, fail to manufacture according to our specifications or fail to comply with strict regulations, our clinical trials and the commercialization of our products could be terminated, delayed, or adversely affected. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We have historically contracted with third-party manufacturers to make clinical trial materials for our product candidates in development, and we intend to continue to rely on third-party contract manufacturers, at least for the foreseeable future, to manufacture our product candidates. Our reliance on third-party contract manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, the regulatory approval or 24 Table of Contents commercialization of our product candidates, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues. Some of these risks include: • The number of potential contract manufacturers that are able to produce our product candidates may be limited. • Our third-party contract manufacturers may place a priority on the manufacture of their own products, or other customers’ products. • Our contract manufacturers may fail to perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business. • The manufacture of products requires compliance with numerous and strict safety, quality and regulatory standards. Our contract manufacturers may not produce our product candidates according to their own standards, our specifications, cGMP requirements, or may otherwise manufacture material that we or the FDA may deem to be unusable in our clinical trials or commercially. • Our manufacturers’ plants may be closed as a result of regulatory sanctions or a natural disaster. • Our contract manufactures may be unable to increase the scale of, or increase the capacity for, our product candidates, we may experience a shortage in supply, or the cost to manufacture our products may increase to the point where it adversely affects the profitability of our products. Further, regulatory approval or the commercialization of our products may be delayed. We cannot assure you that our contract manufactures will be able to manufacture our products at a suitable scale, or we will be able to find alternative manufacturers acceptable to us who can do so. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit their performance, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers, or us, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us or the drug manufacturer from the production of other third-party products. These sanctions include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In the event that we need to change our third-party contract manufacturers, our clinical trials and the commercialization of our products could be delayed, adversely affected or terminated, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues. Due to regulatory restrictions inherent in a BLA or NDA, the manufacture of our product candidates, may be sole-sourced. In accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, changing manufacturers may require the re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures and may require further clinical trials. Changing our current or future contract manufacturers may be difficult for us and could be costly and take several years to complete, which could result in our inability to manufacture our products or product candidates for an extended period of time. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find alternative manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to establish marketing and sales capabilities or fail to enter into effective sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. We anticipate that we will establish relationships with other companies to commercialize some or all of our products in North America and in other countries around the world. We currently have no infrastructure to support such activities, and have little, if any, experience in the commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Therefore, our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to access or develop a capable sales force 25 Table of Contents and suitable marketing capabilities in a timely manner. The development of a sales force and marketing capabilities may result in us incurring significant costs before the time that we may generate significant revenues. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified third parties or marketing or sales personnel, or be able to establish an effective sales force. To the extent that we enter into marketing and sales arrangements with other companies to sell, promote or market our products in the United States or abroad, our product revenues, which may be in the form of direct revenue, a royalty, or a spilt of profits, will depend on their efforts, which may not be successful. If government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate reimbursement or coverage for our products or those we develop through collaborations, our revenues and potential for profitability will be harmed. In the United States and most foreign markets, our product revenues will depend principally upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payers for our products. Such third-party payers include government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved drugs or pharmaceutical products. We may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that our products will be reimbursed in part, or at all, by any third-party payers. Domestic and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drugs. In some foreign markets, governments control prescription drugs’ pricing and profitability. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put downward pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our products in the future, which would limit our revenues and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products may change before our product candidates are approved for sale, which could further limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for our products. Biologic-based products, such as Aurexis and other MSCRAMM-based product candidates, tend to be relatively expensive as compared to other pharmaceutical products. As such, these products may be more susceptible to the pressures associated with pricing challenges from and reimbursement status with third-party payers. If our products or those we develop through product collaborations are approved, but do not gain meaningful acceptance in their intended markets, we are not likely to generate significant revenues or become profitable. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and we obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to sell our products in the future, they may not gain market acceptance or utilization among physicians and patients, or reimbursement or coverage from third-party payers. The degree of market acceptance for any product that we commercialize will depend on a number of factors, including: • the therapeutic efficacy or perceived benefit of the product; • the level of reimbursement available to cover the cost of the product; • the cost of the product to the user or payer; • the product’s potential advantages over existing or alternative therapies; • the actual or perceived safety of similar classes of products; 26 Table of Contents • the effectiveness of sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and • the scope of the product label approved by the FDA. There can be no assurance that physicians will choose to administer our products to the intended patient population. If our products do not achieve meaningful market acceptance, or if the market for our products proves to be smaller than anticipated, we may not generate significant revenues or ever become profitable. We have experienced losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur such losses for the foreseeable future and we may never become profitable. Since inception (May 13, 1994) through December 31, 2006, we have incurred a cumulative deficit of approximately $172.7 million. Our losses to date have resulted principally from: • costs related to our research programs and the clinical development of our product candidates; and • general and administrative costs relating to our operations. We anticipate incurring losses for the foreseeable future if we further develop our product candidates or acquire additional product candidates or programs, which will generally require us to conduct significant research and laboratory testing, conduct extensive and expensive clinical trials, and seek regulatory approvals. We cannot assure you that we will ever generate direct or royalty revenue from the sale of products or ever become profitable. Based on our current strategy our quarterly and annual operating costs and revenues may become highly volatile, and comparisons to previous periods will be difficult to compare. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or our management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Delaware, the state in which we are incorporated may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in management that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions: • establish a classified, or staggered, board of directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to remove and elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment in us could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since we completed our initial public offering in June 2004. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including but not limited to: • our ability to complete an in-licensing, acquisition or merger transaction to obtain other pre-clinical or clinical-stage development programs on terms acceptable to us, our stockholders, analysts, and institutional buyers; • our ability to manage our cash burn rate at an acceptable level; • disclosure of our or our competitors’ clinical trial status or data; • the approval or commercialization of new products by us or our competitors, and the disclosure thereof; • announcements of scientific innovations by us or our competitors; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • public concern about the safety of our product candidates, products or similar classes of products; • litigation to which we may become subject; • disclosures of any favorable or unfavorable clinical or regulatory developments concerning our clinical trials, manufacturing, or product candidates; • actual or anticipated variations in our annual and quarterly operating results; • changes in general conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in drug reimbursement rates or government policies related to reimbursement; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • new regulatory legislation adopted in the United States or abroad; • our failure to achieve or meet equity research analysts’ expectations or their estimates of our business, or a change in their recommendations concerning our company, the value of our common stock or our industry in general; • termination or delay in any of our existing or future collaborative arrangements; • future sales of equity or debt securities, including large block trades or the sale of shares held by our directors or management; • the loss of our eligibility to use Form S-3 due to the amount of our market capitalization falling below specified levels; • the loss of our eligibility to trade our shares of common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market due to our failure to maintain listing standards; • changes in accounting principles; • failure to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of publicly-owned companies, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and more specifically the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for biotechnology stocks in particular, have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. 28 Table of Contents Volatility in the market price for a particular biotechnology company’s stock has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that company. Market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Due to this volatility, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. Future issuances of shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline, even if our business is doing well. The issuance of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales could occur, particularly with respect to our directors, executive officers, and other insiders or their affiliates, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. Insiders and affiliates continue to have substantial control over us, which could delay or prevent a change in our control. As of December 31, 2006, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 40.1% of our outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise significant influence over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including: • the appointment of directors; • the appointment, change or termination of management; • any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; • the approval of some acquisitions or mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or • the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders. 