Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could cause our actual business, prospects, financial results or financial condition to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere by management from time to time. 21 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Beginning in January 2012, our business will require additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or without potentially very substantial dilution to our stockholders. If we do not raise the necessary funds, we will need to terminate our operations and/or file for bankruptcy. Our business will require additional financial investment that we have not yet secured and we will need to raise additional capital on a month-to-month basis during 2012 in order to sustain our business and to pursue our new business priorities. The amount of additional capital we will need to raise depends on many factors, including: •our current or any future litigation related to defending our intellectual property or defending lawsuits that allege our actions infringe the intellectual property of third parties; •the revenue generated by future sales of our products or services; •the timeliness of payments from our customers; •the ability to structure arrangements with, and make payments to, our unsecured creditors; •the continued funding to the Bridge Debt Financing facility under the November, 2010 Note Purchase Agreement; •the emergence of competing or complementary technological developments; •the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; •regulatory changes in our markets; and •the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing or other arrangements that we may establish. Notwithstanding these most recent workforce reductions and our previous reductions, restructurings, expense saving measures, and the Bridge Debt Financing, we do not have sufficient funds to pursue our business priorities. We continue to require significant additional capital on a month-to-month basis in order to continue our operations beyond the existing $2,000,000 committed portion of the Bridge Debt Financing. As of the date of this filing, all $2,000,000 has been drawn against this committed facility. Potential sources of additional funding may include funding from the $2,000,000 uncommitted portion of the Bridge Debt Financing facility and/or from other sources that have not yet been identified, but there can be no assurance that any such funding will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. As of the date of this filing, $375,000 has been advanced under the uncommitted portion of the Bridge Debt Financing facility on a short term basis. The maturity date of the notes issued under the uncommitted portion of the Bridge Debt Financing facility is May 15, 2012. No further commitments beyond the current outstanding notes with a maturity date of May 15, 2012 have been made under the uncommitted portion of the Bridge Debt Financing facility. We are currently in active discussions with the Purchasers regarding the possibility of additional short-term financing to support Helicos' continued operations. The Company and Purchasers have not yet agreed on such financing and there can be no guarantee that we will obtain such financing or any other sources of funding or that Helicos can obtain any additional financing on terms favorable to Helicos or in amounts sufficient to meet Helicos' needs. As a result, we are no longer able to remain current in making payments to trade vendors and other unsecured creditors when such payments are due. Workforce reductions, as well as curtailed financial resources, will further impact our ability to operate our business. In addition, these constraints have caused us to significantly scale back service support and reagent supply to our current installed base. We have also significantly curtailed collaborative activities with other parties. Despite these measures, there cannot be any assurance that we will have sufficient resources to execute our business priorities. We do not know whether the additional capital that we will require will be available when and as needed, on favorable terms or if at all, or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than 22 Table of Contents anticipated. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and collaboration, strategic and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of such sales may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, would involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures or that require early repayment, even with penalties, in connection with a change of control. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we would have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We may not be able to complete any such capital raising transactions on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate additional funds are not available to us when required, we will be required to terminate some or all aspects of our operations and/or seek bankruptcy protection. If we are required to seek protection from our creditors through a bankruptcy filing, it is likely that there would be little or no assets available for payment or distribution to our stockholders, and that our stockholders will lose their entire investment in us. In addition, to seeking funding we are actively exploring a variety of strategic transactions, including the sale, license or other disposition of a portion of our assets in order to raise funding, or the potential sale of all or substantially all our assets or a sale of the Company. We believe it is very unlikely that stockholders would receive any significant value from any such transaction. We are implementing a new strategic focus. If we are unsuccessful in pursuing our new business initiatives, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be materially adversely affected and we may have to cease operations. We are implementing a new strategic focus and plan to deploy our limited resources by focusing on intellectual property monetization. In addition, on October 14, 2010, we announced the launch of a technology licensing program for our Single Molecule Sequencing Platform. While our new business opportunities will rely upon the capabilities of our proprietary Helicos® Genetic Analysis Platform and the strength of our intellectual property portfolio, the business model will be materially different than that which we have engaged in before. We are unable to give any assurance we will be commercially successful in our new business strategy. Our failure to be commercially successful in any such new business opportunity would materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and could ultimately require that we cease operations. The audit report contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 contains an explanatory paragraph to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This "going concern" statement may discourage some third parties from contracting with us and some investors from purchasing our stock or providing alternative capital financing. The resulting failure to establish, or the loss of existing, favorable commercial relationships or to satisfy our capital requirements would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unless we raise additional funds, either through public or private sales of equity, from borrowings or from strategic partners, we will likely have to cease operations. Even if we can continue operating by reducing expenses, the requisite significant reduction in our workforce and operating expenses will adversely affect our business and prospects. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations, or may otherwise default, under our secured loan and security agreements, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our secured loan and security agreements impose restrictions and obligations on us with which we may not be able to comply. If we fail to comply with such restrictions, our lenders may declare us in 23 Table of Contents default. The occurrence of an event of default could lead to acceleration of such debt or any instruments evidencing indebtedness that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. In such event, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance, or to obtain additional financing. Such refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur substantial losses, and might never achieve or maintain profitability. We are a development-stage company with a limited operating history. We have incurred significant losses in each fiscal year since our inception, including net losses attributable to common stockholders of $28.0 million, $18.8 million and $5.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $192.3 million. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our selling, general and administrative expenses. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we used cash in operating activities of $0.9 million. As of December 31, 2011 and March 23, 2012, we had $1.0 million and $34,000 respectively, in cash and cash equivalents. We expect our losses to continue for a considerable period of time as we pursue our new business priorities. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders' equity/(deficit). Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our new business priorities, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. Following our reductions in force in 2010 and 2011, which resulted in the elimination of approximately 90% of our headcount, we may not be able to retain our remaining employees while we pursue our business priorities. As a result, we may be unable to achieve our goals, in which case, our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects will be materially adversely affected and we may have to cease operations. In connection with our efforts to consider alternatives to our long-term strategic focus, in 2010 and 2011, we committed to reductions in headcount and restructuring plans (the "Restructuring Plans") which involved the consolidation and reorganization of our operations in order to reduce operating costs, conserve cash and direct our resources to continue advancing towards our near term goals. The Restructuring Plans involved a reduction in headcount of approximately 70 employees or 90% of the organization. We entered 2012 with only 10 employees and are substantially dependent on the performance of these employees, which include senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. We do not maintain employment contracts with any of our employees. As a result, while we begin to pursue our new business priorities, we will rely heavily on our ability to retain our remaining employees. However, depending on our circumstances, we may need to implement additional workforce reductions in the future. The loss of the service of any number of our remaining employees may significantly delay or prevent our ability to pursue our business objectives by diverting management's attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any, and could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, operating results and financial condition. For example, because of the complex and technical nature of our Helicos System and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to retain a sufficient number of our remaining, qualified employees could materially harm our ability to pursue our business priorities. Given the magnitude of our Restructuring Plans' reductions in force and the potential uncertainty about our strategic direction and long-term roles within our organization, the morale of our remaining employees may be lowered, key employees may be distracted and our business may experience a loss of continuity while we pursue our business priorities. Each of our remaining employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. These persons' expertise would be difficult to replace and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business goals. 24 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will have the financial resources or otherwise be successful in retaining our remaining personnel and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to retain existing personnel during this period of uncertainty or our inability to attract new personnel that fit within a new strategic focus would prevent our exploiting fully our business priorities and thereby cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have limited experience. You should evaluate us in the context of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage company in the life science industry which is experiencing the challenges associated with entering into new, highly competitive markets. Based on our limited experience, we may not: •effectively execute on or focus our research and development efforts with our limited resources; •properly model new opportunities to ensure appropriate resource allocation; or •create product or service offerings that are appropriately developed to meet customer needs. We use hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. We do not currently maintain separate environmental liability coverage. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. We rely on a single laboratory facility for our research and development activities and are occupying our space without a long term lease agreement. We rely on a single laboratory facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts for our research and development activities. This facility and certain pieces of laboratory equipment would be difficult to replace and may require significant replacement lead-time. This facility may be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and fires. In the event our laboratory facility or equipment is affected by man-made or natural disasters, we would be unable to develop products for a significant period of time. Although we maintain insurance on this facility, it may not be adequate to protect us from all potential losses if this facility were damaged or destroyed. In addition, the lease for our Cambridge facility expires on December 31, 2012. We are unable to enter into a longer term lease arrangement due to our limited resources and financial condition. Because we are subject to existing and potential additional governmental regulation, we may become subject to burdens on our operations, and the markets for our products may be narrowed. We are subject, both directly and indirectly, to the adverse impact of existing and potential future government regulation of our operations and markets. The life sciences industry, which is the market for our technology, has historically been heavily regulated. Given the evolving nature of this industry, legislative bodies or regulatory authorities may adopt additional regulation that adversely affects our market opportunities. Our business is also directly affected by a wide variety of government regulations applicable to business enterprises generally and to companies operating in the life science industry in particular. Failure to comply with these regulations or obtain or maintain necessary permits and licenses could result in a variety of fines or other censures or an interruption in our business operations which 25 Table of Contents may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues and could increase the cost of operating our business. In particular, if we decide to market our diagnostic assays as laboratory developed tests ("LDTs") under Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments ("CLIA"), we will need to seek CLIA certification, and be subject to the requirements and oversight of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. We may not receive such certification in a timely fashion or at all. Furthermore, CLIA regulations may change over time and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") may ultimately decide to regulate the devices and methods we will use in the delivery of our LDTs. Although we can closely monitor the initiatives and announcements and policy changes coming from the regulatory agencies, we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may arise and we may not be able to meet the requirements of new laws or regulations enacted by the FDA pertaining to the performance and marketing of our testing services. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is and will continue to be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group and we will evaluate the need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our failure to establish a strong intellectual property position and enforce our intellectual property rights against others would enable competitors to develop similar or alternative technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our technologies. Our policy is to seek to protect our intellectual property by, among other methods, filing U.S. patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. The U.S. Congress recently passed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, which was signed into law in September 2011. The America Invents Act reforms United States patent law in part by changing the standard for patent approval from a "first to invent" standard to a "first to file" standard and developing a post-grant review system. This new legislation changes United States patent law in a way that may weaken our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for future inventions in the United States. Our patent portfolio relating to our proprietary technology is comprised of issued patents and pending patent applications which, in either case, we own directly or for which we are the exclusive or 26 Table of Contents semi-exclusive licensee. Some of these patents and patent applications are foreign counterparts of U.S. patents or patent applications. We may not be able to maintain and enforce existing patents or obtain further patents for our products, processes and technologies. Even if we are able to maintain our existing patents or obtain further patents, these patents may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, nor does it provide the patent holder with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and the extent of future protection is highly uncertain, so there can be no assurance that the patent rights that we have or may obtain will be valuable. Others have filed patent applications that are similar in scope to ours, and in the future are likely to file patent applications that are similar or identical in scope to ours or those of our licensors. We cannot predict whether any of our competitors' pending patent applications will result in the issuance of valid patents. Moreover, we cannot assure investors that any such patent applications will not have priority or dominate over our patents or patent applications. The invalidation of key patents owned by or licensed to us or non-approval of pending patent applications could increase competition, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate any of our technologies, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented technologies developed by us. We are involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect or enforce our patents and proprietary rights and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights, which will result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and which, if unsuccessful, could harm our competitive position and our results of operations. Litigation and administrative proceedings are and may continue to be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. Litigation on these matters has been prevalent in our industry and we expect that this will continue. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to initiate and participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that could result in substantial costs in legal fees and could substantially affect the scope of our patent protection. Also, our intellectual property is and may continue to be subject to significant administrative and litigation proceedings such as invalidity, opposition, reexamination, or reissue proceedings against our patents. The outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding might not be favorable to us, and, in that case, we might be required to develop alternative technological approaches that we may not be able to complete successfully or require licenses from others that we may not be able to obtain. Even if such licenses are obtainable, they may not be available at a reasonable cost. We may also be held liable for money damages to third parties and could be enjoined from using technologies. In addition, legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings will be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. These types of administrative proceedings and any additional litigation that may be necessary in the future could result in our patent protection being significantly modified or reduced, and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In August 2006, we filed an opposition against EP 1 105 529 B1 in the European Patent Office, with respect to which we received a preliminary non-binding opinion upholding the patent. In October 2008, EP 1 105 529 B1 was maintained in amended form and in January 2009 we filed a notice of appeal of the European Patent Office's decision. The patent owner filed a response brief on October 19, 2009, and we filed a reply brief on March 19, 2010. 27 Table of Contents On August 27, 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc. ("Pacific Biosciences") in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware (the "Court") (CA. No. 10-735-SLR) alleging that Pacific Biosciences infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 7,645,596 ("'596 Patent"), 7,037,687 ("'687 Patent"), 7,169,560 ("'560 Patent"), and 7,767,400 ("'400 Patent"). On October 22, 2010, we filed an amended complaint naming Illumina, Inc. ("Illumina") and Life Technologies Corporation ("Life Technologies") as additional defendants. In the amended complaint, we further allege that Life Technologies infringes the '596 Patent, the '687 Patent, and the '560 Patent, and that Illumina infringes the '687 Patent, the '560 Patent, and U.S. Patent No. 7,593,109 ("'109 Patent"). We accuse Pacific Biosciences of willful patent infringement based at least on its manufacture, use, and sale of its Single Molecule Real Time ("SMRT™") DNA sequencing technology. We accuse Life Technologies of willful patent infringement based at least on its manufacture, use, and offer for sale of its Single Molecule Real-Time DNA Sequencing of a Quantum-dot Nanocrystal technology for single molecule sequencing of DNA. We accuse Illumina of willful patent infringement based at least on its manufacture, use, offer for sale, sale, and importation of its sequencing technology for single molecule sequencing of DNA including its Genome Analyzer, HiSeq 2000, and its Sq Module in combination with its iScan and HiScan platforms. We are seeking a permanent injunction enjoining each of the defendants from further infringement as well as compensatory and punitive damages, costs, and attorneys' fees, interest, and other relief as determined by the Court. On January 27, 2011, Pacific Biosciences submitted requests to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the "Patent Office") for inter parties reexamination of the '687 Patent, the '560 Patent, the '596 Patent and the '400 Patent and are seeking a determination that one or more of the claims of those patents are invalid. The Patent Office granted the requests for reexamination of the '400 Patent and the '596 Patent on March 10, 2011, the request for reexamination of the '560 Patent on March 31, 2011, and the request for reexamination of the '687 Patent on April 13, 2011, and issued office actions rejecting all claims of the patents. The Patent Office issued Actions Closing Prosecution in the reexamination proceedings for the '560 Patent, the '687 Patent, the '596 Patent, and the '400 Patent on September 8, 2011; October 5, 2011; October 20, 2011; and January 5, 2012, respectively. All four reexaminations remain pending. On April 25, 2011, Pacific Biosciences moved the Court to stay the litigation pending the outcome of the patent-reexamination proceedings. Life Technologies later joined the motion. On June 23, 2011, Life Technologies moved the Court to drop or sever and stay our claims against it. The Court has denied both motions. On December 14, 2011, the defendants moved the Court to transfer the litigation to the Northern District of California. The Court has not yet entered an order on this motion. On February 15, 2011, we and Illumina filed a Stipulated Order of Dismissal Between Helicos Biosciences Corporation and Illumina, Inc. as to the '560 Patent, pursuant to which our claims against Illumina for infringement of the '560 Patent would be dismissed with prejudice, and Illumina's counterclaims regarding the '560 Patent would be dismissed without prejudice. The Court conducted a scheduling conference on February 9, 2011 and set a trial date of September 10, 2012. Fact discovery has been largely concluded and the parties have exchanged initial expert reports regarding infringement and validity. We depend upon our ability to license technologies, and the failure to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies could harm our ability to sell our products or defend our intellectual property position. We hold various licenses to use certain technologies that we consider to be material to our business. Each of these licenses imposes a range of obligations on us and may be terminated if we breach the terms of any of the respective agreements. We may also be required to enter into additional licenses with third parties for other technologies that we consider to be necessary for our business. If we are unable to maintain our existing licenses or obtain additional technologies on acceptable terms, we could be required to develop alternative technologies, either alone or with others, in order to avoid infringing the intellectual property to which we no longer hold a license. This could require the tests we are developing to be re-configured, which could negatively impact the availability of our tests, once 28 Table of Contents developed, for commercial sale and increase our development costs. Failure to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies would harm our ability to market and sell our diagnostic products, once developed, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any licenses we obtain from federally-funded institutions are subject to the march-in rights of the U.S. government. We may be the subject of costly and time-consuming lawsuits brought by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future, force us to redesign or discontinue our products, or pay royalties to continue to sell our products. Our success depends, in part, on us neither infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties nor breaching any licenses to which we are a party. We may be the subject of legal claims by third-parties that our technology or products infringe their patents or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights. In addition, the technology that we license from third parties for use in our Helicos System could become subject to similar infringement claims. Infringement claims asserted against us or our licensors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any claims, either with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could divert our management's attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts of money or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, from third parties asserting an infringement claim; that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all; or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected products. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in such litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The measures that we use to protect the security of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate, which could result in the loss of legal protection for, and thereby diminish the value of, such intellectual property and other rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition to patent protection, we also rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring our employees, consultants and certain academic collaborators to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will provide adequate protection for our patents, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, there can be no assurance that trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our trade secrets and other proprietary information. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain 29 Table of Contents access to our proprietary information, develop and market genetic analysis systems similar to our tSMS technology, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we may market our technology may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could materially harm our business. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Investing in our stock is highly speculative and an investor will likely lose some of, or the entire amount invested. Our business will require additional financial investment that we have not yet secured and we will need to raise additional capital on a month-to-month basis during 2012 in order to sustain our business and to pursue our new business priorities. If we cannot secure additional financing we may be forced to cease operations and/or file for bankruptcy protection. Therefore, an investment in our stock is highly speculative. Stockholders are unlikely to realize any value with respect to their stock. There is no assurance that we will be successful in the Patent Litigation, and even in the event of a favorable outcome in this litigation there can be no assurance that there will be any proceeds remaining for common stockholders, as a result of various arrangements in place with professional service providers, bridge lenders, licensors and others. As of the date of this filing, we do not have adequate financial resources and will continue to need to generate additional funding from various sources including contract sequencing service projects, government grants and yet to be identified third party financing arrangements in order to continue our intellectual property monetization strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate the funding necessary to continue our intellectual property monetization strategy. If we are unable to execute our operations according to our plans and obtain additional financing, we will be forced to cease operations and/or seek bankruptcy protection. Our common stock has been delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which negatively impacts the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. On June 28, 2010, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") advising that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, we failed to comply with the minimum market value of listed securities ("MVLS") requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(2)(A) and that we did not otherwise satisfy the criteria for continued listing pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(b). NASDAQ stated in its letter that in accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(C), we would be provided 180 calendar days, or until December 27, 2010, to regain compliance with the MVLS continued listing requirement. MVLS is calculated by multiplying the total shares outstanding by the daily closing bid price. On October 12, 2010, we received a delisting determination letter from NASDAQ due to our failure to regain compliance with the NASDAQ Global Market's minimum bid price requirement for continued listing as set forth in Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). In addition, we did not hold our annual meeting of stockholders for fiscal 2010 which is an additional NASDAQ continued listing requirement. Based on the unlikely ability for us to meet the NASDAQ MVLS requirements due to the state of our finances and near-term business prospects, on November 12, 2010, we withdrew our appeal to NASDAQ regarding this delisting notice. Therefore, our securities were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market and the trading of our common stock was suspended before the opening of business on November 16, 2010, and a Form 25-NSE was subsequently filed with the SEC on January 21, 2011 which removed our securities from listing and registration on The NASDAQ Stock Market. The delisting of our common stock will significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and will significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock will materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to 30 Table of Contents us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market will also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. As a result of our most recent financing activities, we are subject to various obligations to creditors and others that are likely to materially reduce or eliminate the total return on equity for our common stockholders. Our obligations to make future Risk Premium Payments under the terms of the Risk Premium Agreement, the Note Purchase Agreement, the contingency fee arrangement with Outside IP Litigation Counsel, the Existing IP Licensing Agreements and the Management Incentive Plan, are highly dilutive to our common stockholders and materially reduce their share of any future earnings of our company. There is no assurance that we will be successful in the Patent Litigation, and even in the event of a favorable outcome in this litigation there can be no assurance that there will be any proceeds remaining for common stockholder, as a result of various arrangements in place with professional service providers, bridge lenders (including the Risk Premium Agreement), licensors and others. The agreements and obligations referenced in this risk factor are more fully described in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, under the caption Bridge Financing and Senior Debt Restructuring, in this Form 10-K. If do not receive sufficient proceeds from the patent Litigation and/or are unable to raise additional financing, we may be required to file for bankruptcy protection. If so, it is likely that there would be little or no assets available for payment or distribution to our stockholders. Our directors and management will exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Certain of our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively control a majority of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders and subject us to securities class action litigation. Market prices of technology and healthcare companies have been particularly volatile recently. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: •investors' perception of our ability to successfully implement our new business priorities; •fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or the operating results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in estimates of our financial results; •failure of our technology to achieve or maintain market acceptance or commercial success; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •success of competitive products and services; •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; •regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; 31 Table of Contents •litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; •additions or departures of key personnel; •investors' general perception of us; and •changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for biotechnology and life sciences stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. A majority of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011 may be offered and sold by selling stockholders pursuant to effective registration statements on Forms S-3 declared effective by the SEC. In addition, up to 22,653,964 additional shares of our common stock may be offered and sold pursuant to effective registration statements by selling stockholders upon exercise of warrants. In addition, a majority of the other outstanding shares of our common stock and other warrants are eligible for resale by the holders of those shares pursuant to other effective registration statements or in exempt private transactions. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. We have registered the issuance of all shares of common stock that we have issued and may issue under our employee option plans. Having registered the issuance of these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, there were 277,777 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance as charitable contribution to the Broad Institute, Inc. that will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •a staggered board of directors; •limitations on the removal of directors; 32 Table of Contents •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. Accordingly, given that our executive officers, directors and their affiliates collectively own a majority of our outstanding common stock, certain of these persons acting together will have the ability to block any such amendment. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 