Item 1A. Risk Factors. If competitive restructuring of the retail energy market is delayed or does not result in viable competitive market rules, our business will be adversely affected. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, has maintained a strong commitment to the deregulation of wholesale electricity markets. The new provisions of EPA 2005 should serve to further enhance the reliability of the electric transmission grid which our electric marketing operations depend on for delivery of power to our customers. This movement at the federal level has in part helped spur deregulation measures in the states at the retail level. Twenty-three states and the District of Columbia have either enacted enabling legislation or issued a regulatory order to implement retail access. In 18 of these states, retail access is either currently available to some or all customers, or will soon be available. However, in many of these markets the market rules adopted have not resulted in energy service providers being able to compete successfully with the local utilities and customer switching rates have been low. Our business model depends on other favorable markets opening under viable competitive rules in a timely manner. In any particular market, there are a number of rules that will ultimately determine the attractiveness of any market. Markets that we enter may have both favorable and unfavorable rules. If the trend towards competitive restructuring of retail energy markets does not continue or is delayed or reversed, our business prospects and financial condition could be materially adversely impaired. Retail energy market restructuring has been and will continue to be a complicated regulatory process, with competing interests advanced not only by relevant state and federal utility regulators, but also by state legislators, federal legislators, local utilities, consumer advocacy groups and other market participants. As a result, the extent to which there are legitimate competitive opportunities for alternative energy suppliers in a given jurisdiction may vary widely and we cannot be assured that regulatory structures will offer us competitive opportunities to sell energy to consumers on a profitable basis. The regulatory process could be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including interruptions of service and significant or rapid price increases. The legislative and regulatory processes in some states take prolonged periods of time. In a number of jurisdictions, it may be many years from the date legislation is enacted until the retail markets are truly open for competition. 13 Table of Contents Other aspects of EPA 2005, such as the repeal of PUHCA 1935 and replacing it with PUHCA 2005, also may impact our business to the extent FERC does not continue the SEC’s precedent of not regulating electric and gas marketers under PUHCA. A proposed rulemaking implementing PUHCA 2005 is currently pending before FERC. If marketers and their parent companies and affiliates are to be regulated under PUHCA 2005, FERC may have access to their books and records and has oversight of their affiliate transactions. Various parties participating in FERC rulemaking have urged FERC not to regulate marketers and other entities that do not own or operate gas or electric facilities. In addition, although most retail energy market restructuring has been conducted at the state and local levels, bills have been proposed in Congress in the past that would preempt state law concerning the restructuring of the retail energy markets. Although none of these initiatives has been successful, we cannot assure stockholders that federal legislation will not be passed in the future that could materially adversely affect our business. We face many uncertainties that may cause substantial operating losses and we cannot assure stockholders that we can achieve and maintain profitability. We intend to increase our operating expenses to develop and expand our business, including brand development, marketing and other promotional activities and the continued development of our billing, customer care and power procurement infrastructure. Our ability to operate profitably will depend on, among other things: • our ability to attract and to retain a critical mass of customers at a reasonable cost; • our ability to continue to develop and maintain internal corporate organization and systems; • the continued competitive restructuring of retail energy markets with viable competitive market rules; • our ability to effectively manage our energy procurement and shaping requirements, and to sell our energy at a sufficient profit margin; and • our ability to obtain and retain necessary credit necessary to support future growth and profitability. We may have difficulty obtaining a sufficient number of customers. We anticipate that we will incur significant costs as we enter new markets and pursue customers by utilizing a variety of marketing methods. In order for us to recover these expenses, we must attract and retain a large number of customers to our service. We may experience difficulty attracting customers because many customers may be reluctant to switch to a new supplier for commodities as critical to their well-being as electricity and natural gas. A major focus of our marketing efforts will be to convince customers that we are a reliable provider with sufficient resources to meet our commitments. If our marketing strategy is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend upon internally developed, and, in the future will rely on vendor-developed, systems and processes to provide several critical functions for our business, and the loss of these functions could materially adversely impact our business. We have developed our own systems and processes to operate our back-office functions, including customer enrollment, metering, forecasting, settlement and billing. We are currently in the process of replacing a number of our internally developed legacy software systems with vendor-developed systems. Problems that arise with the performance of such back-office functions could result in increased expenditures, delays in the launch of our commercial operations into new markets, or unfavorable customer experiences that could materially adversely affect our business strategy. Any interruption of these services could also be disruptive to our business. As we transition from our own systems to new vendor-developed systems, we may incur duplicative expenses for a period of time and we may experience installation and integration issues with the new systems or delays in the implementation of the new systems. If we experience some or all of these new system implementation risks, we may not be able to establish a sufficient operating history for Sarbanes-Oxley 404 attestation requirements, which we expect we must meet by no later than fiscal year ending July 31, 2007. 14 Table of Contents Substantial fluctuations in electricity and natural gas prices or the cost of transmitting and distributing electricity and natural gas could have a material adverse affect on us. To provide electricity and natural gas to our customers, we must, from time to time, purchase the energy commodity in the short-term or spot wholesale energy markets, which can be highly volatile. In particular, the wholesale electricity market can experience large price fluctuations during peak load periods. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into contracts with customers that require us to provide electricity and natural gas at a fixed price over an extended period of time, and to the extent that we have not purchased all the commodity to cover those commitments, we may incur losses caused by rising wholesale prices. Periods of rising prices may reduce our ability to compete with local utilities because their regulated rates may not immediately increase to reflect these increased costs. Energy Service Providers like us take on the risk of purchasing power for an uncertain load and if the load does not materialize as forecast, it leaves us in a long position that would be resold into the wholesale electricity and natural gas market. Sales of this surplus electricity could be and often are at prices below our cost. Long positions of natural gas must be stored in inventory and are subject to the lower of cost or market valuations that can produce losses. Conversely, if unanticipated load appears that may result in an insufficient supply of electricity or natural gas, we would need to purchase the additional supply. These purchases could be and often are at prices that are higher than our sales price to our customers. Either situation could create losses for us if we are exposed to the price volatility of the wholesale spot markets. Any of these contingencies could substantially increase our costs of operation. Such factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are dependent on local utilities for distribution of electricity and natural gas to our customers over their distribution networks. If these local utilities are unable to properly operate their distribution networks, or if the operation of their distribution networks is interrupted for periods of time, we could be unable to deliver electricity or natural gas to our customers during those interruptions. This would result in lost revenue to us, which could adversely impact the results of our operations. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our financial and operational flexibility. The terms of our asset-based credit facility restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other persons or sell, assign, transfer, lease, converge or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Further, we and our subsidiary, Commerce Energy, are required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability and Commerce Energy’s ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our ability and control, respectively, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. Substantially all of our assets and our operating subsidiaries’ assets are pledged as security under our asset-based credit facility. If the wholesale price of electricity decreases, we may be required to post letters of credit for margin to secure our obligations under our long term energy contracts. If the market price of wholesale electricity decreases below the price of the electricity we purchase under long-term contracts, the power supplier may require us to post margin in the form of a letter of credit, or other collateral, to protect themselves against our potential default on the contract. If we are required to post such security, it could adversely affect our liquidity. Some suppliers of electricity have been experiencing deteriorating credit quality. We continue to monitor the credit quality of our energy suppliers to attempt to reduce the impact of any potential counterparty default. As of July 31, 2006, the majority of our counterparties are rated investment grade or above by the major rating agencies. These ratings are subject to change at any time with no advance warning. A deterioration in the credit quality of our energy suppliers could have an adverse impact on our sources of electricity purchases. 15 Table of Contents We are required to rely on utilities with whom we compete to perform some functions for our customers. Under the regulatory structures adopted in most jurisdictions, we are required to enter into agreements with local utilities for use of the local distribution systems, and for the creation and operation of functional interfaces necessary for us to serve our customers. Any delay in these negotiations or our inability to enter into reasonable agreements with those utilities could delay or negatively impact our ability to serve customers in those jurisdictions. This could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on local utilities for maintenance of the infrastructure through which electricity and natural gas is delivered to our customers. We are limited in our ability to control the level of service the utilities provide to our customers. Any infrastructure failure that interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity or natural gas to our customers could have a negative effect on the satisfaction of our customers with our service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Regulations in many markets require that the services of reading our customers’ energy meters and the billing and collection process be retained by the local utility. The local utility’s systems and procedures may limit or slow down our ability to add customers. We are required to rely on utilities with whom we compete to provide us accurate and timely data. In some states, we are required to rely on the local utility to provide us with our customers’ energy usage data and to pay us for our customers’ usage based on what the local utility collects from our customers. We may be limited in our ability or unable to confirm the accuracy of the information provided by the local utility. In addition, we are unable to control when we receive customer payments from the local utility. If we do not receive payments from the local utility on a timely basis, our working capital may be impaired. In the event we do not receive timely or accurate usage data, our ability to generate timely and accurate bills to our customers will be adversely affected which, in turn, will impact the ability of our customers to pay bills in a timely manner. We are subject to federal and state regulations in our electricity and natural gas marketing business and the rules and regulations of regional Independent System Operators, or ISOs, in our electricity business. The rules under which we operate are imposed upon us by federal and state regulators, the regional ISOs and interstate pipelines. The rules are subject to change, challenge and revision, including revision after the fact. In California, the FERC [FERC Dockets No. EL02-71-001 and EL 000-95-000] and other regulatory and judicial bodies continue to examine the behavior of market participants during the California Energy Crisis of 2000 and 2001, and to recalculate what market clearing prices should have or might have been under alternative scenarios of behavior by market participants. In the event the historical costs of market operations were to be reallocated among market participants, we cannot predict whether the results would be favorable or unfavorable for us nor can we predict the amount of such adjustments. The payment or receipt of adjustments, if any, will likely be conducted between FERC, the California ISO and our contracted scheduling coordinator for the period in question, Automated Power Exchange, or APX. APX served as the direct interface with the now defunct California Power Exchange for the sale and purchase of some volumes of power by the Company during 2000 and 2001. In Pennsylvania, beginning in December 2004, the ISO established a Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment, or SECA, to compensate transmission owners for the change in the Regional Through and Out Rates which eliminated some transmission charges and revenues from the ISO system operations. The impact on us, if any, is uncertain at this time. Compensatory payments to transmission owners are likely, but the recovery mechanism from customers, utilities or other load serving entities, such as us, is uncertain. We cannot predict the amount of these adjustments, if any, at this time. In some markets, we are required to bear credit risk and billing responsibility for our customers. In some markets, we are responsible for the billing and collection functions for our customers. In these markets, we may be limited in our ability to terminate service to customers who are delinquent in payment. Even if we terminate service to customers who fail to pay their utility bill in a timely manner, we may remain liable to our suppliers of electricity or natural gas for the cost of the electricity or natural gas and to the local utilities for services related to the transmission and distribution of electricity or natural gas to those customers. The failure of our 16 Table of Contents customers to pay their bills in a timely manner or our failure to maintain adequate billing and collection programs could materially adversely affect our business. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. We sell electricity and natural gas that we purchase from third-party power supply companies and natural gas suppliers to our retail customers on a contractual or monthly basis. We are not guaranteed any rate of return through regulated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for electricity and natural gas in our regional markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. These factors could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. Volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas results from multiple factors, including: • weather conditions, including hydrological conditions such as precipitation, snow pack and stream flow; • seasonality; • unexpected changes in customer usage; • transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; • planned and unplanned plant or transmission line outages; • demand for electricity; • natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal supply availability to generators from whom we purchase electricity, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and • federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. We may experience difficulty in successfully identifying, integrating and managing the risks related to businesses or assets that we may acquire and in realizing the anticipated economic benefits related thereto. We do not have a great deal of experience acquiring companies or large blocks of assets, and the companies and assets we have acquired have been small. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. From time to time, we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and risk. The areas where we may face risks include: • The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; • Retaining employees working in the businesses or group of assets we acquire; • The need to integrate the accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems of an acquired business or assets to permit effective management; • The possibility of increased customer attrition with respect to the asset we acquired; and • The need to secure adequate supplies of electricity and natural gas to service the demands of the acquired business or assets. Also, the anticipated benefit of many of our acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our 17 Table of Contents financial condition. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. We purchase substantially all of our power and natural gas under forward physical delivery contracts, which are defined as commodity derivative contracts under SFAS No. 133. We also utilize other financial derivatives, primarily swaps, options and futures, to hedge our price risks. Accordingly, proper accounting for these contracts is very important to our overall ability to report timely and accurate financial results. We have devoted significant resources to remediate and improve our internal controls. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal controls and addressed the concerns that gave rise to reportable conditions and material weaknesses in fiscal 2004 and 2005, we are continuing to work to improve our internal controls, particularly in the area of energy accounting. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide us with the attestation of the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accountants must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement may first apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2007. How companies should be implementing these new requirements, including internal control reforms, if any, to comply with Section 404’s requirements, and how independent registered public accountants will apply these new requirements and test companies’ internal controls, are subject to uncertainty. Although we are diligently and vigorously reviewing our internal controls over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the new Section 404 requirements, if our independent registered public accountants are not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accountants interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 18 Table of Contents Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant. Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers, including their respective business experience during the last five years and age as of October 16, 2006. Executive officers are elected by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of the persons listed below was selected as an executive officer. Name and Position Age Principal Occupation and Other Information Steven S. Boss Chief Executive Officer and Director 60 Mr. Boss was appointed to the Board of Directors in July 2005 and appointed Chief Executive Officer of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. in August 2005. Since August 2005, Mr. Boss also has served as a director and President of Commerce Energy, Inc., a director and Chief Executive Officer of Skipping Stone Inc. Each of Commerce Energy, Inc., Skipping Stone Inc. and Utilihost, Inc. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. From 2003 to August 2005, Mr. Boss was an attorney in private practice specializing in the representation of energy companies and commercial energy users. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Boss served as president of Energy Buyers Network, LLC, an energy consulting firm that provided regulatory representation and structured direct access energy transactions for commercial energy users. From 1999 to 2000, he served as president of both Sierra Pacific Energy Company and Nevada Power Services, non-regulated energy services operating subsidiaries of Sierra Pacific Resources. Prior to that, Mr. Boss served in various legal and senior management positions in a number of energy companies and practiced law in private practice. From 1984 to 1992, Mr. Boss served as president and chief executive officer of Sunrise Energy Services, Inc., an independent natural gas marketing company with shares listed on the American and London Stock Exchanges. Mr. Boss received a Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Texas and a Juris Doctor from the University of Southern California. He has been a member of the State Bar of California since 1974. Lawrence Clayton, Jr. Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 53 Mr. Clayton was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. in August 2005 and in December 2005 was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of the Corporation. Since January 2006, Mr. Clayton has served as a director and Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of Commerce Energy, Inc. and a director, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary of Skipping Stone Inc. From March 2004 to August 2005, Mr. Clayton was a principal of The Practice Advisory Group, a private management consulting organization. From 2003 to March 2004, he served as a private consultant for energy clients. From 2000 to 2002 Mr. Clayton served as Chief Financial Officer of EOTT Energy, a publicly-traded independent gatherer and marketer of crude oil. From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Clayton was the Chief Financial Officer of Aquila Energy, an energy merchant subsidiary of UtiliCorp United, Inc., whose capital stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Clayton is a graduate of Rice University, where he earned both an M.A. in Accounting and a B.A. in Managerial Studies and Economics. 19 Table of Contents Name and Position Age Principal Occupation and Other Information Thomas L. Ulry Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing 42 Mr. Ulry joined the Commerce Energy Group, Inc. in February 2005 as Senior Vice President, Sales and Operations and currently serves as Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing. From October 2003 until he joined Commerce Energy Group, Mr. Ulry served as Global Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of ACN Energy, a division of ACN, Inc. that was acquired by us in February 2005. From November 2001 to July 2003, Mr. Ulry served as Senior Vice President for Nicor Energy, L.L.C. Mr. Ulry served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Energy.com Corporation from 1997 through October 2001. Mr. Ulry has also held positions with Access Energy Corporation, Unicorp Energy, Inc. and UtiliCorp Energy Services/Broad Street Oil & Gas. Mr. Ulry holds an Associate degree in Information Technology from Columbus Para-Professional Institute. R. Nick Cioll Vice President, Chief Risk Officer 48 Mr. Cioll was appointed Vice President, Chief Risk Officer of Commerce Energy Group, Inc. in October 2006. Mr. Cioll has served as Vice President, Risk Management for Commerce Energy Inc., since July 2004. From April 2002 to 2004, Mr. Cioll served as Director of Risk Management at TXU Corporation, a company that engages in electricity generation, residential and business retail electricity sales, and wholesale power and natural gas market activities. From November 2001 to 2002, Mr. Cioll served as Internal Business Consultant at TXU Corporation. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Cioll served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of RateXChange Corporation, an e-commerce online exchange for communications bandwidth. Mr. Cioll received his Bachelor of Science degree in Economics from Louisiana State University, and his Masters in Business Administration with a finance option from the University of New Orleans. 