Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. Industry Background Electricity In order to increase consumers' competitive options the U.S. electric utility industry began a process of deregulation in 1992, which primarily served to unbundle generation, transmission, distribution and ancillary services into separate components of a utility's service. As in other industries that have been deregulated, competition in the electric service industry was intended to provide consumers with a choice of multiple suppliers and was expected to promote product differentiation, lower costs and delivery of enhanced services. To obtain these benefits, customers in deregulated utility markets would be able to choose to switch their electric supply service from their local utility to an alternative supplier. In 1996, some states, and some of the utilities within those states, proceeded to allow their end-use customers direct access to marketers, enabling them to purchase their electricity commodity from entities other than the local utilities in competitive retail markets. These proceedings created new market participants of which Commerce Energy is one. They are known in California as Electricity Service Providers, or ESPs, and in other states by this or similar terms. Presently, approximately one-half of the states in the United States have either enacted enabling legislation or issued regulatory orders to proceed with such retail direct access. The electricity distribution infrastructure in place prior to deregulation remains largely unchanged, with the primary difference being that parties other than the local utility can utilize the delivery infrastructure by paying usage fees. ESPs use this established electricity network for the delivery of energy to their customers. Electricity is a real-time commodity and cannot be stored. As soon as it is produced, it must be simultaneously delivered into the grid to meet the demand of end users. Most electricity grids and 5 wholesale market clearing activities are managed by third-party entities known as Independent System Operators or ISOs, or Regional Transmission Organizations or RTOs. The ISO or RTO is responsible for system reliability and ensures that physical electricity transactions between market participants are managed in such a way as to assure that proper electricity reserve margins are in place, grid capacity is maintained and supply and demand are balanced. To maintain profitability, we must effectively manage or shape our purchased electricity supply to the real-time demand or load of our customers. These load-shaping activities, required by the hourly variability in the electricity usage patterns of our customers compared to the fixed hourly volume purchased from our suppliers, results in our holding of long or short energy positions. A long position occurs when we have committed to purchase more electricity than our customers need, and a short position occurs when our customers' usage exceeds the amount of electricity we have committed to purchase. In both situations, we utilize the wholesale electricity spot market and ISO clearing markets to balance our long or short energy positions, selling supply when in a long position and buying when in a short position. It is not possible to be completely balanced on every delivery hour; therefore we always have some exposure to price volatility in the wholesale market for electric power. Purchases and sales in the wholesale market are regulated by FERC, to whom we report regularly. Weather, generation capacity, transmission, distribution and other market and regulatory issues also are significant factors in determining our wholesale procurement and sales strategies in each of the markets we serve. FERC has deregulated the wholesale electricity market by allowing power marketers and utilities who do not have market controlling power, to sell wholesale electric power at market rates (i.e., whatever rate the buyer and seller agree upon), as opposed to requiring that prices be cost-based (i.e., based on the supplier's cost of the electricity). FERC has further encouraged competition in the wholesale bulk power markets by promulgating open access transmission rules in 1996, which have led to the increasing commoditization of electricity markets. FERC's open access transmission rules require transmission providers under its jurisdiction to allow eligible customers access to their transmission systems at cost-based rates. This has enabled purchasers of wholesale power to access a larger number of potential suppliers, thereby enhancing competition. FERC has continued to promote increased competition in RTOs which have ultimate control over the bulk transmission system in a particular geographic area. Wholesale electricity or bulk power, once purchased and sold almost exclusively between traditional utilities under bilateral arrangements, is now traded by many different market participants on organized markets, including hourly, daily and monthly spot markets, power exchanges and financial markets, such as futures and options markets. Competitive markets now exist in many regions of the country for energy, automatic generation control, spinning reserves, other categories of ancillary services and capacity. Organizations such as the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, and the Intercontinental Exchange, or ICE, offer trading opportunities in electricity futures and options at various locations across the country. The price of electricity is largely set by these competitive markets. Recently, the growth and evolution of wholesale electricity markets has been accelerated with the formation of RTOs. These RTOs are developing organized market structures for the purpose of providing more efficient and competitive wholesale marketplaces for the benefit of consumers in the regions in which they operate. Retail electric marketers procure power supplies for delivery to end-use customers from a variety of wholesale power producers or merchant generation companies, either through term supply contracts or on a spot basis. In addition, short-term daily or hourly supply requirements can be purchased or sold through the balancing markets operated by the ISO or RTO. The physical distribution of electricity to retail customers remains the responsibility of the local utility, which collects fees for its services. Most states also allow the utility to provide additional services, such as reading meters, generating customer 6 bills, collecting bills and taking requests for service changes or problems, while in other states the utility is not allowed to, or chooses not to, perform these services. Natural Gas The natural gas industry, government regulated since 1938, began a process of deregulation in the early 1980s leading to a dynamic industry with a highly competitive market place and a commodity that is widely traded in the daily and futures markets. The market price of natural gas is quoted at various locations or regional hubs around the country. These regional hubs are usually priced at a differential to the largest centralized point for natural gas spot and futures trading in the United States known as the Henry Hub, located in Louisiana, and used by the NYMEX as the contractual point of delivery for its natural gas futures contracts. There are over 70 major market hubs, or intersections of various pipeline systems, where natural gas transactions occur. In addition, purchases and sales are made at thousands of gas processing plants where gas enters the national grid, city gate interconnections where gas leaves the national grid, and industrial and electric generator direct connections with large pipelines making up the national grid. Thousands of contracts are bought and sold daily at the market centers. These market centers have various degrees of liquidity in both the cash and forward markets. Prices may vary widely from hub to hub, reflecting regional market conditions. Additionally, thousands of transactions occur at non-market hub interconnections and often these transactions are based upon or priced relative to the major market hub or hubs in their vicinity. Although transactional prices of natural gas are determined by market forces, the cost of transportation of natural gas from the outlet of gathering systems and processing plants to the "city gate" interconnection with local gas distributors is performed by regulated pipelines which essentially act as common carriers. Any market participant desiring transportation services from such pipelines must be offered such services on an equal basis with other market participants. Transportation from the city gate to the burner tip, a common term for where a consumer uses the gas, is performed by regulated local utilities. Unlike the interstate natural gas pipelines that act as common carriers, the local gas distribution companies are a mixture of common carrier, selective carrier, and non-carrier systems. Only common carrier and some selective carrier systems can be accessed to serve retail residential and commercial/industrial customers. Retail natural gas providers for the most part procure natural gas supplies for delivery to end-use customers from a variety of wholesale natural gas suppliers, mostly at a relevant market hub, either through term supply contracts or on a spot basis. The physical distribution of natural gas to retail customers remains the responsibility of the local natural gas utility, which collects a fee for the use of its distribution system. Core Products and Services Our core business is the retail sale of electricity and natural gas to end-use customers. Commerce Energy, Inc. We sell electricity and natural gas service to customers under both month-to-month variable price and longer-term fixed price service contracts. The difference between the sales price of energy delivered to our customers and the related cost of our energy supplies, transmission costs, distribution costs and ancillary services costs provides our gross profit margin. The electricity and natural gas we sell is generally metered and delivered to our customers by the local utilities. With the exception of Texas, the local utilities also provide billing and collection services for many of our customers on our behalf. We buy electricity and natural gas in the wholesale market in time-specific, bulk or block quantities usually at fixed prices. With respect to electricity markets, we balance the differences between the 7 actual sales demand or usage of our customers and our bulk or block purchases by buying and selling any shortfall or excess in the spot market. ISOs and RTOs perform real-time load balancing for each of the electric grids in which we operate. Similarly, with respect to natural gas markets, supply and demand balancing is performed by Commerce Energy in connection with agreements with the local distribution company or LDC utilities or by the LDCs themselves on behalf of Commerce Energy, for each of the natural gas markets in which we operate. We are charged or credited by the ISOs and LDCs for balancing the electricity and natural gas purchased and sold to our customers. Skipping Stone Inc. Commerce divested its energy consulting business, Skipping Stone Inc., or Skipping Stone, and closed its offices in Houston and Boston, used primarily by Skipping Stone, during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008, or fiscal 2008. The Company entered into an agreement with the former president of Skipping Stone to sell substantially all of the assets of Skipping Stone, including its name, for a nominal amount of cash and the assumption of substantially all of its liabilities. During fiscal 2008, Skipping Stone accounted for less than 1% of our net revenues. Our Customers and Markets As of July 31, 2008, we were delivering electricity and natural gas supply to customers in 10 states and 23 utility service territories. We periodically review and evaluate the profitability of our operations in each of these markets and the advantages to us of entering other potential utility service territories that are open for direct access sales to end-use customers. The review of entrance in a new market area would include exploring opportunities to acquire existing portfolios of customers from current suppliers in targeted markets. We operate in one reportable business segment, energy retailing, in one geographic area, the United States. Our customer base consists of residential, commercial and industrial customers. Our business is not dependent upon any one customer or a few major customers and, during fiscal 2008, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues. In addition to expansion of our core products and services into new deregulated markets and targeted customer classes, we are working to broaden the scope of our energy-related products and services to include energy efficiency offerings and additional outsourced services. As of July 31, 2008, we served approximately 155,000 electricity and natural gas customers. Although a number of our customers, particularly in our commercial and industrial sales segment, have more than one account, we determine and report our customer count with each customer defined as an individual customer account. We served electricity customers in 12 utility service territories within six states: Texas, California, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey and natural gas customers in 14 utility service territories within seven states: California, Ohio, Florida, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Georgia. Sales of electricity and natural gas comprised 71% and 29%, respectively, of total net revenues during fiscal 2008; 64% and 34%, respectively, during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2007, or fiscal 2007; and 74% and 25%, respectively during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006, or fiscal 2006. Strategy Commerce Energy's profitability depends on our ability to achieve sufficient customer scale in order to create a profitable operating cost structure. To achieve this scale and subject to our ability to obtain adequate financing, we intend to substantially grow our customer base in markets that offer adequate gross margins, shed customers which may no longer be served economically, evaluate and 8 align our market presence to achieve optimum returns on investments and seek out acquisition opportunities that will advance our growth goals. Growth plans include: •Substantially growing our customer base in energy markets that have rate structures, market rules, consumer demographics, energy consumption patterns, access to favorable energy supply and risk management profiles that allow us to economically serve the market. •Establishing a market position for the Commerce Energy brand that is differentiated from competitors, relevant to customers and other key stakeholders and executable by the Company. •Within our mass market division, continuing to develop a robust sales channel mix including outbound and inbound telesales, online sales and enrollment, affinity alliances, direct mail and advertising, as well as various indirect sales partnerships. •Establishing strategic supplier relationships that will enable us to offer a broad range of innovative service plans, pricing flexibility and competitive rates. •Offering additional products and services to our customers designed to help consumers use energy more efficiently and to otherwise bring better control of their energy costs. •Pursuing community aggregation programs that enable us to enroll larger numbers of consumers more economically than through traditional one-by-one marketing efforts. •Continuing to develop our Commercial & Industrial or C&I division in its pursuit of small- and medium-size commercial consumers, particularly those with multiple-location (multi-state) requirements. Sales and Marketing Commerce Energy markets electricity and natural gas utilizing contract terms based either on fixed or variable rates. The majority of our fixed-rate contracts are for a duration of 12 to 24 months, with occasional shorter-term offerings based on market conditions and customer preferences. Our monthly variable rate contracts are cancellable after 30 days' notice, allowing customer flexibility with respect to a longer term price or supplier commitment. During fiscal 2008, substantially all of our new customer sales contracts were under fixed-rate contract terms. As expected, following unprecedented increases in the wholesale cost of energy and significant volatility of market prices during the summer months of calendar year 2008, customers were more inclined to lock in certainty in the cost of their energy. A variety of approaches are utilized in acquiring customers, including a professional sales force calling on C&I end-users and various mass market sales channels in pursuit of residential and small businesses. Historically, a majority of our customers have been acquired through telesales and network marketing. Service after the sale is a critical part of our success. The new management team plans to significantly improve the customer experience from enrollment to customer care. The Company will use this as a point of differentiation going forward and expects it to significantly increase customer retention and renewal rates. Our sales efforts are divided into two divisions: C&I, representing sales to medium-sized and larger commercial accounts, and Mass Market, comprised of residential customers and small businesses. Commercial & Industrial The C&I segment comprises electricity and natural gas sales to small and medium-size commercial consumers, municipal and government entities. These sales primarily consist of structured products and negotiated contracts developed to meet the budgetary needs and risk tolerance of an individual customer. The typical C&I customer possesses a high level of understanding of the energy business and 9 current market conditions. Competition for these types of customers is robust, with several established competitors in each geographic market. C&I sales involve a longer sales cycle, higher energy usage and lower per unit margins than the typical mass market customer. Commerce Energy has established itself as a preferred provider of customers with multi-location, multi-state requirements. Leveraging our information systems and operational capabilities, we are able to attract and retain customers such as retail chains, hotel/motel chains, food service chains and school districts, in addition to small- and medium-sized, single-location commercial consumers. Although other indirect sales channels are utilized, we make sales to this customer segment largely through the establishment of direct customer relationship by experienced account executives. Mass Market Sales to mass market customers are comprised of pre-defined service plans developed on the usage patterns of a typical small business or residential consumer. Historically, telesales and network marketing were utilized almost exclusively for the acquisition of customers in the mass market. The new management team is currently reviewing the sales channels used to acquire mass market customers and plans to take a very focused approach moving forward. The focus will be on identifying the channel that provides high value, creditworthy customers at the lowest possible cost to acquire. Energy Supply We do not own electricity generation assets or natural gas producing properties. All of the electricity and natural gas we sell to our customers is purchased in the wholesale market from third-party suppliers in time-specific block quantities under short-term and long-term contracts, usually at fixed prices. Although we have open lines of credit with suppliers, contractual purchase terms with suppliers often require additional collateral to support our energy purchases. We utilize our available cash and letters of credit issued under our bank credit facility to meet any collateral requirements of our energy suppliers. With respect to electricity markets, we balance the differences between the actual sales demand or usage of our customers and our bulk or block purchases by buying and selling any shortfall or excess in the spot market. ISOs and RTOs perform real-time load balancing for each of the electric grids in which we operate. Similarly, with respect to the natural gas market, supply and demand balancing is performed by Commerce Energy in connection with agreements with the LDC utilities or by the LDC themselves on behalf of Commerce Energy, for each of the natural gas markets in which we operate. We are charged or credited by the ISOs and LDCs for balancing of our electricity and natural gas purchased and sold for our account, and we are subject to costs or fees charged by the ISOs or LDCs for these electricity and natural gas balancing activities related to our account. Wholesale electricity and natural gas are readily available from various third party suppliers in our markets, except for the state of Michigan, where all of our electricity is purchased from one supplier. In fiscal 2008, one electricity supplier accounted for 20% of our direct energy costs and one gas supplier accounted for 17% of our direct energy costs, and their relationships are not secured by long-term contracts. Based upon current information from our suppliers, we do not anticipate any shortage of supply. However, in the event of a supply shortage, there can be no assurance that we would be able to timely secure an alternative supply of electricity or natural gas at prices comparable to our current contracts, and the failure to replace a supplier in a timely manner at comparable prices could materially harm our operations. We employ risk management policies and procedures to control and monitor the risks associated with volatile commodity markets and to assure a balanced energy- sales-and-supply portfolio within defined risk tolerances. 10 Competition Commerce Energy, Inc. In markets that are open to competitive choice of retail energy suppliers, there are generally three types of competitors: the incumbent utilities, utility-affiliated retail marketers and small to mid-size independent retail energy companies, such as Commerce Energy. Competition is based primarily on price, product offerings and customer service. The competitive landscape differs in each utility service area, and within each targeted customer segment. For residential and small commercial customers in most service territories, the primary competitive challenges come from the incumbent utility and affiliated utility marketing companies. For the medium-sized commercial customer, competitive challenges come from the utility and its affiliated marketing company, as well as other independents. However, this segment is still the least targeted segment among our competition due to the difficulty in balancing cost of acquisition and margin objectives. The large commercial, institutional and industrial segments are very competitive in most markets with nearly all customers having already switched away from the utility to an alternate provider. National affiliated utility marketers, energy producers and other independent retail energy companies often compete for customers in this segment. The incumbent regulated utilities and the nationally-branded utility affiliates typically benefit from the economies of scale derived from the strength of substantial asset-based balance sheets, and vertically integrated business models that combine production, transmission and distribution assets. For incumbent utilities these advantages are often offset by the lack of flexibility to offer multiple product choices to their customers, while the nationally-branded affiliates often struggle with long-term focus and cultural adaptation to a non-regulated market environment. Increasing our market share depends on our ability to convince customers to switch to our service. The local utilities have the advantage of long-standing relationships with their customers, and they have longer operating histories, greater financial and other resources and greater name recognition in their markets than we do. In addition, local utilities have been subject to many years of regulatory oversight and thus have a significant amount of experience regarding the policy preferences of their regulators, as well as a critical economic interest in the outcome of proceedings concerning their revenues and terms and conditions of service. Local utilities may seek to decrease their tariff retail rates to limit or to preclude the opportunities for competitive energy suppliers and may seek to establish rates, terms and conditions to the disadvantage of competitive energy suppliers. There is an emerging trend among some local utilities to exit the merchant function and actively encourage customers to change their energy supply service. This is sometimes encouraged by the framework for deregulation within which the local utility operates. Among the retail marketers and wholesale merchants, competition is most intense for the larger volume commercial and industrial accounts. Our primary target customer segments are small to medium commercial customers. We expect that the combination of our existing residential customer base and our continued growth will enhance our ability to successfully compete for larger commercial and institutional customers. Most customers who switch away from the local utility do so for economic benefit. Once switched, customer retention is based on continuing competitive pricing, reliability of supply and customer service. Some of our competitors, including local utilities, have formed alliances and joint ventures in order to compete in the restructured retail electricity and natural gas industries. Many customers of these local utilities may decide to stay with their long-time energy provider if they have been satisfied with their service in the past. Therefore, it may be difficult for us to compete against local utilities and their affiliates. 11 We also may face competition from other nationally-branded providers of consumer products and services. Some of these competitors or potential competitors may be larger and better capitalized than we are. Seasonality Our sales volumes and revenues are subject to fluctuations during the year due primarily to the impact of seasonal weather factors on customer energy demand and the related market prices of electricity and natural gas. Electricity sales volumes are historically higher in the summer months for cooling purposes, followed by the winter months for heating and lighting purposes. Natural gas sales volumes are higher in the winter heating season, with the lowest demand occurring during the summer. Governmental Regulation In states that have adopted deregulation, state Public Utility Commissions or PUCs, Public Service Commissions or PSCs, or equivalent bodies, have authority to license, certify and regulate certain activities of electric and natural gas retailers. Commerce Energy is subject to regulation by the Commissions in each state in which we sell electricity and natural gas. As of July 31, 2008, we were licensed or certified by the applicable Commissions in 13 states. These licenses and certificates permit us to sell electricity and natural gas to commercial, industrial, institutional and residential customers. The requirements for licensing, the level of regulation and the products we are permitted to sell vary from state to state. We consider each utility service territory within which we operate to be a distinct market due to the unique characteristics of each. A discussion of regulations for our market service areas follows. State Regulations Wholesale market rules are expected to change over the next several years as RTOs continue in their efforts through a variety of FERC-filed or state Commission rules and procedures to relieve congested transmission systems, encourage expansion of transmission networks and attempt to enhance competition in the bulk power markets. These changes will likely impact our retail electricity business in several RTOs in which we operate, specifically: Pennsylvania—New Jersey—Maryland or PJM Interconnection, referred to as the PJM Market, Electric Reliability Council of Texas, referred to as ERCOT, and the California Independent System Operator or CAISO. These proposed changes could increase transmission charges in the form of congestion pricing to relieve congestion at certain delivery or interconnection points on a transmission system (nodal pricing and related measures) and through higher transmission capacity charges permitted by FERC to stimulate more investment in new transmission lines and facilities. While these changes will likely increase transmission charges, at least in the short run, they may lead to a more efficient and expanded transmission system within these RTOs that can accommodate more transactions, and help the Company to access more customers at the wholesale and retail level. There is no way to impute an exact effect through a cost/benefit analysis because there are many variables, and RTOs may be permitted different ways to achieve the same objective of enhancing competition in the bulk power, wholesale markets. Electricity California. In 1996, California Assembly Bill 1890 codified the restructuring of the California electric industry and provided for the right of Direct Access. Direct Access allowed electricity customers to buy their power from a supplier other than the electric distribution utilities beginning January 1, 1998. On April 1, 1998, we began supplying customers in California with electricity as an ESP. On September 20, 2001, the California Public Utilities Commission or CPUC, issued a ruling suspending electricity Direct Access. This ruling permits ESPs to keep their current customers and to 12 solicit Direct Access customers served by other ESPs; however, it prohibits us from signing up new non-Direct Access customers in California, for an undetermined period of time. The amount of statewide load on Direct Access service has declined to approximately 10%. On May 24, 2007, the CPUC voted 4-1 to begin a new proceeding—Order Instituting Rulemaking or OIR, which will examine, among other things, the legal authority of the CPUC to reopen the retail electric market unilaterally, (without further legislation), the public policy benefits of lifting the Direct Access suspension, and the retail rules governing a reconstituted Direct Access market. It is anticipated the OIR will be completed in the second half of 2008, and that as a result, the Direct Access market may reopen in 2009, unless legislation is introduced to prevent such a result. Under legislative mandate, the CPUC is implementing the state's Resource Adequacy Requirement or RAR. In September 2005, California Assembly Bill 380, covering electrical restructuring and resource adequacy was passed into law. This bill requires the CPUC, in consultation with the ISO, to establish RARs for all Load-Serving Entities or LSEs. The bill requires each LSE to secure generating capacity adequate to meet its load requirements, including but not limited to, peak demand and planning and operating reserves, deliverable to locations and at times as may be necessary to provide reliable electric service. The CPUC issued its Final Decision on system RARs on October 27, 2005. The Final Decision requires LSEs, including Investor-Owned Electric Utilities or IOUs, or ESPs, and Community Choice Aggregators or CCAs, to have capacity to serve their retail customers' forecasted loads and a 15-17% reserve margin beginning in June 2006. On June 29, 2006, the CPUC issued its decision on local RARs, for which requirements are established annually under CPUC allocation principles. The CPUC adopted a penalty of $40 per kW-year on the amount a LSE is deficient in meeting the annual requirements, in addition to backstop procurement costs. As a LSE, Commerce Energy is subject to the RARs and its provisions, including penalties for non-compliance. The ability of Commerce Energy to recover costs associated with RAR from its customers will be subject to market pricing and competitive forces. On September 26, 2006, California Senate Bill 107 was signed into law. The bill amends the existing law concerning renewable portfolio standards or RPS, for LSEs in the state. The bill accelerates the procurement targets such that 20% of retail sales are procured from eligible renewable energy resources no later than December 31, 2010. The former law required 20% by 2017. Rules to implement California's RPS, including development of a renewable energy certificate market and flexible compliance measures, continue to evolve. As such, the associated costs to Commerce Energy or its customers are not fully known. On September 27, 2006, California Assembly Bill 32, "The California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006," was signed into law. AB 32 sets in statute mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas or GHG, emissions to 1990 levels, by the year 2020. Carbon dioxide or CO2 makes up about 83% of California's GHG emissions, largely from fossil fuel combustion. Transportation is responsible for 42% of CO2 emissions and electric power emits 19.6% of CO2 emissions. The impact of this bill is not yet known. The regulatory agencies continue to debate whether the GHG reporting responsibilities and reduction requirements should be imposed as either a "first seller" or "load based" method. "First seller" method covers the generating plants responsible for GHG emissions. A "load based" method would pose a regulatory burden on us, and perhaps a cost increase to our retail customers. CAISO is expected to implement a nodal market design on April 1, 2008, known as Market Redesign and Technology Upgrade or MRTU. The design provides better market efficiencies, in terms of congestion management and market price signals. However, the design poses systems complexity, higher transaction volumes, and requires greater hedging sophistication for market participants such as Commerce Energy. Additionally, MRTU may pose higher credit requirements because of congestion revenue rights being allocated to, and auctioned among, load-serving entities such as Commerce Energy. We are taking prudent steps to prepare for MRTU. We have engaged third-party project 13 management and information technology services to guide this effort and convert our transaction systems. We are subject to various legal proceedings arising out of our activities in the California electricity markets during 2000 and 2001. See Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings—California Cases. Pennsylvania. In 1996, the Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act was passed. The law allowed electric consumers to choose among competitive power suppliers beginning with one-third of the State's consumers by January 1999, two-thirds by January 2000, and all consumers by January 2001. Commerce Energy began serving customers in Pennsylvania in 1999. Current utility default rates are capped until 2010 as a result of the restructuring related to the Electric Choice Law. As power prices rise significantly, it has become clear that the utility price cap is not realistic or representative of true market power costs. Squeezed between a capped utility rate, high wholesale electricity costs and the high cost of servicing customers in Pennsylvania due to the market rules and market structure, many companies, including Commerce Energy, have reduced the number of customers they serve in the state. There are no current rate cases or filings at the Pennsylvania PUC which are expected to impact the Company's financial results. Maryland. In 1999, the Maryland General Assembly passed the Electric Choice and Competition Act. Part of this Act required that all customers receive a rate reduction, followed by a rate freeze. The rate reduction of 6.5% for Baltimore Gas & Electric, or BG&E, customers was based on the last BG&E rate case in 1993. The rate freeze in the BG&E service territory expired on July 1, 2006. The market price obtained through the standard offer service competitive auction process in the BG&E service territory increased 72%. This increase paved the way for Commerce Energy to start offering products to all classes of customers at rates that are market based and highly competitive to BG&E's standard offer service rate. Commerce Energy was licensed by the Maryland PSC on July 7, 2004. In an attempt to mitigate the impact of the BG&E rate increase, the Maryland General Assembly in special session in June, 2006 passed Senate Bill One which among other things limited the BG&E rate increase to 15% for the period July 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007; however, that limit was imposed as a credit to the utility's transportation fees and did not affect the commodity price increase. In the closing hours of the 2007 session, the Maryland General Assembly passed SB 400. This bill required the PSC to conduct investigatory and evidentiary proceedings reevaluate the general regulatory structure, agreements, orders and other prior actions of the PSC under the Electric Customer Choice and Competition Act of 1999 As a result of this reevaluation the PSC ordered BG&E to refund over $400 million in stranded costs. This order resulted in litigation with the State of Maryland and a resulting settlement in which BGE agreed to refund a portion of the ordered amount. Further, the PSC issued a report to the governor recommending increased transmission construction, local generation, and ratepayer supported long-term contracts. Commerce Energy is engaged with the Retail Energy Supplier Association (RESA) in an effort to mitigate any mandated utility long-term contracts that are supported by non-passable charges to the ratepayer. RESA and Commerce Energy believe that these long-term contracts are anti-competitive and harmful to the ratepayer in the long run. New Jersey. Deregulation activities began in New Jersey in November 1999 when the Board of Public Utilities or the BPU, approved the implementation plan. Commerce Energy began marketing in New Jersey in the Public Service Gas & Electric Company or PSE&G, service territory in December 2003. Since 2002, the four New Jersey Electric Distribution Companies including PSE&G have procured electric supply to serve their Basic Generation Service or BGS, customers through a statewide auction 14 process held each year in February. BGS customers are customers who are not served by a third party supplier or competitive retailer. The utility uses a rolling procurement structure whereby each year one-third of the load is procured for a three-year period. We anticipate that this will cause the auction rate to increase and create a BGS rate that is closer to the current market price. In April 2008 the State of New Jersey issued a Draft Master Energy Plan that proposes to revise the procurement of energy supply, energy efficiency programs, alternative energy supply goals, and retail pricing mechanisms. It is too early in the process to determine what impact, if any, this Plan might have on the competitive market. Effective May 2008, the New Jersey Board of Public Service revised its energy competition standards. The rules apply to all electric power suppliers, gas suppliers, BGS providers and basic gas supply service providers. The rules include anti-slamming provisions, affiliate relations, licensing and registration, government aggregation programs and retail choice consumer protection changes. We believe that we are in compliance with these pending rule changes and see no material impact to our operations. PJM. PJM, the regional transmission organization, comprising the wholesale transmission system for our retail customers served in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland, implemented a new Capacity Market design effective June 1, 2007. Known as the Reliability Pricing Model or RPM, this design auctioned generating capacity between sellers and buyers. However, unlike the previous Capacity Market design, RPM divided the PJM system into three geographic zones, and awarded a single-clearing price for each zone and for each year of three years forward. Capacity prices under RPM were significantly higher than seen previously. As a capacity buyer on PJM, this new design made it difficult for us to remain competitive with default or bundled service offerings by the incumbent utility in certain retail markets such as Baltimore Gas & Electric or BGE. The Brattle Group was retained by PJM to evaluate the effectiveness of the RPM model. A report issued by The Brattle Group on June 30, 2008 recommends several changes to the RPM that Commerce Energy is evaluating to determine the impact on the availability and price of supply resources in the PJM area. Michigan. The Michigan state legislature passed two acts, the Customer Choice Act and Electricity Reliability Act, signed into law on June 3, 2000. Open Access, or Choice, became available to all consumers of Michigan electric distribution utilities, beginning January 1, 2002. We began marketing in Michigan's Detroit Edison service territory in September 2002. In 2005, the Michigan Public Service Commission, or MPSC, approved Detroit Edison Company's filing to unbundle its transmission, generation, and distribution functions. In doing so, the MPSC allowed the assignment of generation costs to the distribution function, artificially increasing the distribution rates for all competitive customers. Despite the recent improvements in the competitive costs in Michigan, the Detroit Edison Company's rate design continues to severely limit competition. Two bills affecting the competitive suppliers that were filed in the Michigan legislature in 2007 are expected to be adopted in late 2008. While both bills have negative and positive aspects from a competitive perspective, the bills are generally believed to be favorable to the ability of Alternative Electric Suppliers to compete if adopted in their current form. Texas. The Texas deregulation law, or SB7, was enacted in 1999, enabling the Texas electric market to open for retail competition and customer choice on January 1, 2002. On that date Texas consumers could choose their Retail Electric Provider or REP. Commerce Energy began serving electric customers in the Oncor (formerly TXU Electric Delivery) and CenterPoint service territories of ERCOT. On May 16, 2005, we expanded further into the Texas service territories of American Electric Power or AEP, and Texas New Mexico Power or TNMP. On January 1, 2007, the default service known as "Price to Beat" expired under SB7, resulting in full price competition between retailers affiliated with the incumbent utility and non-affiliated retailers. Approximately 55% of retail load, approximately 15 43% in the residential class alone, has switched to non-affiliated retail electric providers, such as Commerce Energy. Wholesale costs for congestion management, system reliability, and balancing energy on the ERCOT grid have increased significantly to market participants, such as Commerce Energy. Specifically, cost responsibility and allocation for replacement reserve service, an ancillary service for ERCOT grid operations, continues to be a concern which Commerce and others are attempting to address in ERCOT's stakeholder process. These costs currently are being "uplifted" to all market participants based on a load-ratio share. Our ability to recover these charges from our retail customers is subject to market pricing and competitive forces. The market nodal design originally expected to be implemented by December 2008 has been delayed. Currently, ERCOT has not provided an estimated implementation date, but Commerce expects it will be no earlier than mid-2009. The nodal market design will assign congestion costs directly to those responsible, unlike the zonal design in which most congestion costs are "uplifted" to all market participants. However, like the nodal design expected for California, and currently existing in the PJM market, nodal poses systems complexity, higher transaction volumes, and requires greater hedging sophistication for market participants such as Commerce Energy. Credit risks related to residential customers continue to be a problem for Commerce Energy and other retail suppliers. Existing regulations allow Commerce Energy and other retail electric providers to only use electric bill payment history to deny service. However Public Utility Commission of Texas Customer Protection Rules allow us to manage the credit risk by requesting a deposit or advanced payment and to disconnect for non-payment. Natural Gas Beginning with the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, the U.S. Congress initiated a process that ended federal control over the price of natural gas at the wellhead. This ultimately set in motion a series of public policy changes by the FERC and state utility commissions that have resulted in consumer choice programs for all natural gas users in certain states. We serve natural gas customers in 14 utility gas market areas in the following seven states: California. We currently serve residential and small commercial customers in the Southern California Gas and Pacific Gas & Electric gas markets. We are the only core aggregation transportation provider to residential customers in these markets. There are no current rate cases or filings pending before the California PUC that are anticipated to impact our financial results. Florida. In April 2000, the Florida Public Service Commission adopted rules that extend customer choice to all nonresidential users of natural gas in the State regardless of volume. This gives small businesses in Florida the same option that was previously available only to large industrial and commercial customers. The rules also specify that local distribution companies may offer transportation services to residential customers. Commerce Energy's entry into the Florida natural gas market is a result of the acquisition of commercial and industrial customers purchased from Houston Energy Services Company, L.L.C., or HESCO, completed in September 2006. We operate in four LDC markets in Florida. Georgia. In 1997, the Georgia General Assembly passed the Georgia Natural Gas Competition and Deregulation Act, or the Georgia Gas Act. The Georgia Gas Act reorganized the Georgia retail natural gas market and allowed natural gas marketers to serve retail consumers. The Georgia Public Service Commission has implemented a comprehensive unbundling program in the state. Over 80% of the state's residential gas consumers are serviced by certified gas marketers. The ability to disconnect customers for non-payment of invoices is severely constrained by system design that limits growth in this market. 16 Maryland. Pursuant to a Letter Agreement dated August 1, 2008, Commerce Energy agreed to sell all of its gas customers in the BG&E market and all customers will be transferred by November 1, 2008. Commerce Energy took this step while it evaluates the type of natural gas customer it desires to serve in Maryland or, if from a strategic viewpoint, it desires to exit the natural gas market in Maryland. After this date and until it makes certain strategic decisions related to its customer base, Commerce will not have any natural gas customers in Maryland. Nevada. In 1985, the Nevada State Legislature passed legislation permitting the selling of natural gas as a discretionary service in Nevada. Consequently, industrial and large commercial consumers of natural gas have been able to choose their supplier. Commerce Energy's entry into the Nevada natural gas market is a result of the acquisition of commercial and industrial customers purchased from HESCO. We operate in one LDC market in Nevada. Ohio. In 1997, natural gas choice programs began in Ohio. We provide gas service to residential and small commercial customers in the Dominion East Ohio, or DEO, and Columbia Gas of Ohio, or COH, service areas. DEO and Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio, or VEDO, are exiting the natural gas merchant function in Ohio pursuant to plans approved by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, or PUCO. Following implementation of the plan to its full extent, these two utilities will deliver natural gas to customers for Commerce and other competitive natural gas suppliers and provide natural gas service to a small percentage of customers that do not qualify for competitive choice. In 2006, DEO conducted its initial auction for pricing its wholesale supply of natural gas for the time period October 2006 through August 2008. In mid-summer 2008, DEO conducted a second auction and priced its wholesale natural gas supply for September 2008 through March 2009. In February 2009, DEO will implement a new auction to allow the competitive suppliers to provide the standard retail offer. In this auction the winning suppliers will become the standard offer retail supplier for all eligible customers and the suppliers will obtain direct access to such customers. VEDO will hold a similar auction at about the same time. The February auctions will be structured similar to the current auction as participants will bid a monthly retail price adjustment to be added to the monthly NYMEX settlement price. The sum of these will become the Standard Contract Offer and is expected to take the place of the existing Standard Offer Service, or SOS. The rates set by this auction will be at market when set just as the SOS rate has been at market at the time of the auctions. Commerce Energy and other competitive suppliers believe this new process is supportive of the evolving competitive natural gas market in Ohio. Pennsylvania. In 1997, the natural gas supply service in Pennsylvania was fully opened to competition for all customer classes. The Natural Gas Choice and Competition Act specified that after five years (July 2004) the PUC was to initiate processes to evaluate the competitiveness of natural gas supply services in the state and report its findings to the General Assembly. As a result, the Pennsylvania PUC released a report on its findings in 2006. It was discovered that the State at this time could be more supportive of competition by changing some of the rules and taxes currently imposed on suppliers. A report regarding their findings is expected to be released later this year. Federal Regulations Federal Energy Regulatory Commission We also are subject to regulation by various other federal, state and local governmental agencies. Our electric purchases and sales are subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, under the Federal Power Act. We make sales of electricity pursuant to a Power 17 Marketer certificate issued by FERC. While not generally regulating the rates or terms or conditions of electricity sales, FERC has the authority to institute proceedings to identify transactions involving rates that are not just and reasonable due to market manipulation and to reverse or unwind such transactions to ensure just and reasonable rates. The Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EPA 2005, was signed into law. The scope of EPA 2005 is broad, addressing fossil, nuclear and renewable energy, energy efficiency and tax credits and incentives, across a range of energy producing and consuming sectors. Certain changes mandated by EPA 2005 may have a direct or indirect effect on our business. In particular, provisions intended to enhance the reliability of electric transmission and delivery systems, further the transparency of electricity and natural gas markets, encourage the construction of new electric transmission infrastructure, and facilitate the importation of natural gas should increase the efficiency of the competitive wholesale natural gas and electricity markets in which we participate. Furthermore, effective February 8, 2006, EPA 2005 replaced the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, or PUHCA 1935, with the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, or PUHCA 2005. PUHCA 2005 involves much less extensive regulation than PUHCA 1935, but does include provisions involving FERC access to books and records of public utility holding companies and their affiliates, as well as certain oversight over affiliate transactions. In accordance with EPA 2005, FERC has finalized rules (RM05-32-000) to address certain issues related to implementation of PUHCA 2005, including implementing the Federal access to books and records. In the past, through a series of no action letters, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, has concluded that electric and gas marketers who did not own or operate electric generation, transmission or distribution facilities or gas retail distribution facilities were not public-utility companies, and their parent companies were not public-utility holding companies, under PUHCA 1935. In its final rule, FERC confirmed that such electric and gas marketers are not public-utility companies under PUHCA 2005, and that their parent companies are not holding companies under PUHCA 2005 (provided such parent companies do not own other entities that would be considered public-utility companies), so they would not be subject to the provisions of the new law. In June 2007, mandatory, enforceable reliability standards were imposed on the bulk power industry under the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The bulk power industry includes power plants and transmission infrastructure. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation or NERC is responsible for developing and enforcing 83 reliability standards. NERC maintains a compliance registry of 1,400 entities, and any violation of the reliability standards can result in enforcement actions and fines. We are not included among the 1,400 entities, but nonetheless believe that such standards will serve to protect the operation of the bulk power system, through which we procure and deliver wholesale power supplies to our retail loads. Intellectual Property Intellectual property assets include our proprietary software and service products, our registered trademarks (Commerce Energy®, Sure Choice®, electricAmerica®, Green Smart®, 1-800-Electric®, electric.com® and Utilihost, Inc.®), our 1-800-Electric telephone number and rights to our internet domain names electric.com, commerceenergy.com and electricAmerica.com. We believe that each of our intellectual property assets offers us strategic advantages in our operations. Our strategy for protection of our trademarks is to routinely file U.S. federal trademark applications for the various word names and logos used to market our services to licensees and the general public. The duration of the U.S. registered trademarks can typically be maintained indefinitely, provided proper fees are paid and trademarks are continually used or licensed by us. 18 Employees As of July 31, 2008, we employed 200 full-time employees, including 28 in administration, 31 in marketing and sales, and 141 in operations. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information Our Internet address is www.CommerceEnergy.com. There, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, filed pursuant to Sections 13 (a) and 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the Investor Relations section of our Web site. The other information found on our Web site is not part of this or any other report we file or furnish to the SEC. Any of the materials we file with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the SEC's Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us, at http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We must obtain additional financing to satisfy our substantial short-term obligations and we may be unable to obtain such financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain additional financing, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We currently have approximately $26.2 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under our Credit Facility with Wachovia, which matures on December 22, 2008, and Wachovia has notified us that it does not intend to extend the Credit Facility beyond December 22, 2008. It is anticipated that we will continue to require a credit facility of $20 to $25 million to support letters of credit issued to our energy suppliers. Some of our energy suppliers have recently required us to post additional cash collateral or provide replacement letters of credit as a result of the uncertainty created by the unprecedented volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets and our current financial situation and we may be required to post additional cash collateral or provide additional replacement letters of credit in the future. Our Senior Notes, in the aggregate principal amounts of $20.9 million and $2.2 million, respectively, mature on December 22, 2008. In addition, our Demand Note, under which we have $2.6 million of indebtedness outstanding, matures on December 22, 2008, if payment is not demanded prior to such date. As of the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, we do not have a firm commitment for a replacement credit facility or financing that will permit us to replace our Credit Facility with Wachovia or repay our Senior Notes and Demand Note when they mature on December 22, 2008 (or, in the case of the Demand Note, when demanded, if payment is demanded prior to such date). As a result of the unprecedented volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure adequate credit and capital to meet our short-term obligations on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain a replacement credit facility and financing that will permit us to repay our Senior Notes and Demand Note when they mature (or, in the case of the Demand Note, when demanded, if payment is demanded prior to such date), we may not be able to continue our operations. As a result, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going 19 concern as indicated in the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We received a "going concern" opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008, which may negatively impact our business. We received a report from Hein & Associates LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, or Hein & Associates, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that we have suffered recurring losses from operations, and have been unable to secure a lending facility or any other long-term financial arrangement. The report also stated that these facts raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The "going concern" opinion for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2008, may fail to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern and could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships with business partners, to raise additional capital and to sell our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Such issuances may dilute the value of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company believes that it will require additional capital in fiscal 2009 to (i) meet the requirements in its Credit Facility and other debt obligations that mature on December 22, 2008; (ii) expand its business; (iii) add liquidity in case energy prices materially and unexpectedly increase; and (iv) meet unexpected funding requirements caused by industry volatility and/or uncertainty. To the extent that our existing capital and borrowing capabilities are insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings, including offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock or rights to acquire our common stock or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, or additional borrowings, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. A large issuance of shares of our common stock will decrease the ownership percentage of current outstanding shareholders and may result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Any large issuance may also result in a change in control of the Company. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our financial and operational flexibility. The terms of our asset-based credit facility restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate with other persons or sell, assign, transfer, lease, converge or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Further, we and our subsidiary, Commerce Energy, are required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability and Commerce Energy's ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our ability and control, respectively, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those tests. Substantially all of our assets and our operating subsidiaries' assets are pledged as security under our asset-based credit facility. 20 Based upon current estimates, we may not be in compliance with certain covenants of our Credit Facility and Subordinated Notes in fiscal 2009. If current estimates continue unchanged and we are unable to obtain a waiver or consent of the agent and the lenders to our Credit Facility and Subordinated Notes, we will be in default under the Credit Facility and Subordinated Notes, which will have a material adverse effect on our business. Based upon our current cash flow estimates, including our need to post collateral against our energy purchases and against our mark-to-market exposure with suppliers, we have notified our agent and lenders under the Credit Facility and Subordinated Notes that we may be out of compliance in fiscal 2009 with certain covenants under the Credit Facility and Subordinated Notes. In the event that we are out of compliance, the Lenders are entitled to accelerate the obligations under the Credit Facility and Subordinated Notes or exercise other remedies provided thereunder. Although we have received temporary waivers, amendments and modifications to the Credit Facility in the past, there is no assurance that if we need such a waiver, amendment or modification, the agent and lenders will grant it, or if they do grant such a waiver, amendment or modification, such waiver, amendment or modification will be on terms acceptable to us. Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for those shares due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: •our ability to obtain and retain credit necessary to support both current operations and future growth; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates; •our inability to raise additional capital as needed; •substantial sales of common stock underlying our convertible notes or warrants; and •changes in financial markets or general economic conditions. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no 21 assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You could experience substantial dilution of your investment as a result of subsequent conversions of the 12% Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Notes and the exercise of the related Warrants issued in connection with the Senior Secured Financing. As of October 16, 2008, AP Finance LLC, or AP Finance, the holder of the 12% Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Notes, or the Senior Notes, in the aggregate principal amounts of $20.9 million and $2.2 million, respectively, each with a maturity date of December 22, 2008, has a right to convert each note into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $3.00 per share, subject to adjustments, and subject to limitations under the American Stock Exchange rules requiring a vote of the Company's stockholders. Pursuant to these limitations, the maximum amount of shares of common stock which may be issued upon conversion of the Senior Notes without a stockholder vote is 2,229,869. In addition, if stockholder approval contemplated by the American Stock Exchange rules were obtained, a total of 7,718,997 shares could be issued upon conversion of the Senior Notes (assuming the initial conversion price under the Senior Notes). In connection with the financing transaction, AP Finance also was granted warrants to purchase 3,070,054 shares of our common stock at $1.15 per share and the Company's investment banker and finder were each granted warrants to purchase an aggregate of 875,000 shares of common stock at $1.15 per share. As a result of the issuances of these convertible securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution to the extent the Senior Notes are converted and/or the warrants are exercised. You could experience substantial dilution of your investment as a result of subsequent exercises of our outstanding options or the grant of future equity awards by us. As of July 31, 2008, an aggregate of 1,151,667 shares of our common stock were reserved for future issuance under our currently outstanding Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and other stock option plans, 553,333 of which were subject to options outstanding as of that date at a weighted average price of $1.20 per share. To the extent outstanding options are exercised, our existing stockholders may incur dilution. We rely heavily on equity awards to motivate current employees and to attract new employees. The grant of future equity awards by us to our employees may further dilute our stockholders. If competitive restructuring of the retail energy market is delayed or does not result in viable competitive market rules, our business will be adversely affected. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, has maintained a strong commitment to the deregulation of wholesale electricity markets. The new provisions of EPA 2005 should serve to further enhance the reliability of the electric transmission grid which our electric marketing operations depend on for delivery of power to our customers. This movement at the federal level has in part helped spur deregulation measures in the states at the retail level. Twenty-three states and the District of Columbia have either enacted enabling legislation or issued a regulatory order to implement retail access. In 18 of these states, retail access is either currently available to some or all customers, or will soon be available. However, in many of these markets the market rules adopted have not resulted in energy service providers being able to compete successfully with the local utilities, and customer switching rates have been low. Our business model depends on other favorable markets opening under viable competitive rules in a timely manner. In any particular market, there are a number of rules that will ultimately determine the attractiveness of any market. Markets that we enter may have both favorable and unfavorable rules. If the trend towards competitive restructuring of retail energy markets does not continue or is delayed or reversed, our business prospects and financial condition could be materially adversely impaired. 22 Retail energy market restructuring has been and will continue to be a complicated regulatory process, with competing interests advanced not only by relevant state and federal utility regulators, but also by state legislators, federal legislators, local utilities, consumer advocacy groups and other market participants. As a result, the extent to which there are legitimate competitive opportunities for alternative energy suppliers in a given jurisdiction may vary widely, and we cannot be assured that regulatory structures will offer us competitive opportunities to sell energy to consumers on a profitable basis. The regulatory process could be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including interruptions of service and significant or rapid price increases. The legislative and regulatory processes in some states take prolonged periods of time. In a number of jurisdictions, it may be many years from the date legislation is enacted until the retail markets are truly open for competition. Other aspects of EPA 2005, such as the repeal of PUHCA 1935 and replacing it with PUHCA 2005, may also impact our business to the extent FERC does not continue the SEC's precedent of not regulating electric and gas marketers under PUHCA. A proposed rulemaking implementing PUHCA 2005 is currently pending before FERC. If marketers and their parent companies and affiliates are to be regulated under PUHCA 2005, FERC may have access to their books and records and has oversight of their affiliate transactions. Various parties participating in FERC rulemaking have urged FERC not to regulate marketers and other entities that do not own or operate gas or electric facilities. In addition, although most retail energy market restructuring has been conducted at the state and local levels, bills have been proposed in Congress in the past that would preempt state law concerning the restructuring of the retail energy markets. Although none of these initiatives has been successful, we cannot assure stockholders that federal legislation will not be passed in the future that could materially adversely affect our business. We face many uncertainties that may cause substantial operating losses and we cannot assure stockholders that we can achieve and maintain profitability. We intend to increase our operating expenses to develop and expand our business, including brand development, marketing and other promotional activities and the continued development of our billing, customer care and power procurement infrastructure. Our ability to operate profitably will depend on, among other things: •our ability to attract and to retain a critical mass of customers at a reasonable cost; •our ability to continue to develop and maintain internal corporate organization and systems; •the continued competitive restructuring of retail energy markets with viable competitive market rules; •our ability to effectively manage our energy procurement and shaping requirements, and to sell our energy at a sufficient profit margin; and •our ability to obtain and retain credit necessary to support future growth and profitability. We may have difficulty obtaining a sufficient number of customers. We anticipate that we will incur significant costs as we enter new markets and pursue customers by utilizing a variety of marketing methods. In order for us to recover these expenses, we must attract and retain a large number of customers to our service. We may experience difficulty attracting customers because many customers may be reluctant to switch to a new supplier for commodities as critical to their well-being as electricity and natural gas. A major focus of our marketing efforts will be to convince customers that we are a reliable provider with sufficient resources to meet our commitments. If our marketing strategy is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 23 We depend upon internally developed, and, in the future will rely in part on vendor-developed, systems and processes to provide several critical functions for our business, and the loss of these functions could materially adversely impact our business. We have developed our own systems and processes to operate our back-office functions, including customer enrollment, metering, forecasting, settlement and billing. We are currently in the process of replacing a number of our internally developed legacy software systems with vendor-developed systems. Problems that arise with the performance of such back-office functions could result in increased expenditures, delays in the launch of our commercial operations into new markets, or unfavorable customer experiences that could materially adversely affect our business strategy. Any interruption of these services could also be disruptive to our business. As we transition from our own systems to new vendor-developed systems, we may incur duplicative expenses for a period of time, and we may experience installation and integration issues with the new systems or delays in the implementation of the new systems. If we experience some or all of these new system implementation risks and such risks result in unreliable or inaccurate data to be reported in our financial reports, we may not be able to establish a sufficient operating history for our independent public accounting firm to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The attestation report under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to our independent accounting firm may apply to us as soon as the fiscal year ending July 31, 2009 if our market capitalization exceeds $75 million on January 31, 2009, or, if not, the fiscal year ending July 31, 2010. Substantial fluctuations in electricity and natural gas prices or the cost of transmitting and distributing electricity and natural gas could have a material adverse affect on us. To provide electricity and natural gas to our customers, we must, from time to time, purchase the energy commodity in the short-term or spot wholesale energy markets which can be highly volatile. In particular, the wholesale electricity market can experience large price fluctuations during peak load periods. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into contracts with customers that require us to provide electricity and natural gas at a fixed price over an extended period of time, and to the extent that we have not purchased the entire commodity to cover those commitments, we may incur losses caused by rising wholesale prices. Periods of rising prices may reduce our ability to compete with local utilities because their regulated rates may not immediately increase to reflect these increased costs. ESPs like us take on the risk of purchasing power for an uncertain load, and, if the load does not materialize as forecast, it leaves us in a long position that would be resold into the wholesale electricity and natural gas market. Sales of this surplus electricity could be and often are at prices below our cost. Long positions of natural gas must be stored in inventory and are subject to the lower of cost or market valuations that can produce losses. Conversely, if unanticipated load appears that may result in an insufficient supply of electricity or natural gas, we would need to purchase the additional supply. These purchases could be and often are at prices that are higher than our sales price to our customers. Either situation could create losses for us if we are exposed to the price volatility of the wholesale spot markets. Any of these contingencies could substantially increase our costs of operation. Such factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are dependent on local utilities for distribution of electricity and natural gas to our customers over their distribution networks. If these local utilities are unable to properly operate their distribution networks, or if the operation of their distribution networks is interrupted for periods of time, we could be unable to deliver electricity or natural gas to our customers during those interruptions. This would result in lost revenue to us, which could adversely impact the results of our operations. 24 We may not fully hedge our electric or gas supply or other market positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase commitments. As part of this strategy, we utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged positions. In addition, our risk management policies and procedures may not always work as planned. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on our financial results. The use of derivative contracts by us in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our financial results. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. If the wholesale price of electricity decreases, we may be required to post letters of credit for margin to secure our obligations under our long term energy contracts. If the market price of wholesale electricity decreases below the price of the electricity we purchase under long-term contracts, the power suppliers may require us to post margin in the form of a letters of credit, or other collateral, to protect them against our potential default on the contract. If we are required to post such security, it could adversely affect our liquidity. Some suppliers of energy have been experiencing deteriorating credit quality. We continue to monitor the credit quality of our energy suppliers to attempt to reduce the impact of any potential counterparty default. As of July 31, 2008, the majority of our counterparties are rated investment grade or above by the major rating agencies. These ratings are subject to change at any time with no advance warning. Deterioration in the credit quality of our energy suppliers could have an adverse impact on our sources of energy purchases. We are required to rely on utilities with whom we compete to perform some functions for our customers. Under the regulatory structures adopted in most jurisdictions, we are required to enter into agreements with local utilities for use of the local distribution systems, and for the creation and operation of functional interfaces necessary for us to serve our customers. Any delay in these negotiations or our inability to enter into reasonable agreements with those utilities could delay or negatively impact our ability to serve customers in those jurisdictions. This could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on local utilities for maintenance of the infrastructure through which electricity and natural gas is delivered to our customers. We are limited in our ability to control the level of service the utilities provide to our customers. Any infrastructure failure that interrupts or impairs delivery of electricity or natural gas to our customers could have a negative effect on the satisfaction of 25 our customers with our service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Regulations in many markets require that the services of reading our customers' energy meters and the billing and collection process be retained by the local utility. The local utility's systems and procedures may limit or slow down our ability to add customers. We are required to rely on utilities with whom we compete to provide us accurate and timely data. In some states, we are required to rely on the local utility to provide us with our customers' energy usage data and to pay us for our customers' usage based on what the local utility collects from our customers. We may be limited in our ability or unable to confirm the accuracy of the information provided by the local utility. In addition, we are unable to control when we receive customer payments from the local utility. If we do not receive payments from the local utility on a timely basis, our working capital may be impaired. In the event we do not receive timely or accurate usage data, our ability to generate timely and accurate bills to our customers will be adversely affected which, in turn, will impact the ability of our customers to pay bills in a timely manner. We are subject to federal and state regulations in our electricity and natural gas marketing business and the rules and regulations of regional Independent System Operators, or ISOs, in our electricity business. The rules under which we operate are imposed upon us by federal and state regulators, the regional ISOs and interstate pipelines. The rules are subject to change, challenge and revision, including revision after the fact. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of applicable laws or governmental regulations, we may be subject to curtailment or restructuring of our operations, and penalties, damages and fines, some of which may not be covered by insurance. We may also be subject to adverse publicity. Similarly, if our power suppliers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to penalties, sanctions or curtailing or restructuring of their operations, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of our being found in violation of certain applicable laws is increased by the fact that many applicable laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions may be open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of applicable laws and regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. In addition to adversely impacting our business and prospects, adverse publicity could materially adversely affect our stock price. We may be subject to the claims or liabilities in connection with certain regulatory and refund proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. In California, the FERC and other regulatory and judicial bodies continue to examine the behavior of market participants during the California Energy Crisis of 2000 and 2001, and to recalculate what market clearing and bi-lateral contract prices should have or might have been under alternative scenarios of behavior by market participants. In the event the historical costs of market operations were to be reallocated among market participants or recalculated in the event of bi-lateral contracts, this could have a material adverse financial impact on us, but the extent of any such amount cannot be predicted. Please see the discussion under Part 1, Item 3. Legal Proceedings—California Cases. In some markets, we are required to bear credit risk and billing responsibility for our customers. In some markets, we are responsible for the billing and collection functions for our customers. In these markets, we may be limited in our ability to terminate service to customers who are delinquent in payment. Even if we terminate service to customers who fail to pay their utility bill in a timely manner, we may remain liable to our suppliers of electricity or natural gas for the cost of the electricity or natural gas and to the local utilities for services related to the transmission and distribution of electricity or natural gas to those customers. The failure of our customers to pay their bills in a timely 26 manner or our failure to maintain adequate billing and collection programs could materially adversely affect our business. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to market risks that are beyond our control. We sell electricity and natural gas that we purchase from third-party power supply companies and natural gas suppliers to our retail customers on a contractual or monthly basis. We are not guaranteed any rate of return through regulated rates, and our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices for electricity and natural gas in our regional markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. These factors could have an adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. Volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas results from multiple factors, including: •seasonality; •unexpected changes in customer usage; •transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; •planned and unplanned plant or transmission line outages; •demand for electricity; •natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal supply availability to generators from whom we purchase electricity, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and •federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. In addition, our revenues and results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather, including hydrological conditions such as precipitation, snow pack, stream flow and hurricanes. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas, and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive, causing outages and property damage that require us to incur additional expenses. We may experience difficulty in successfully identifying, integrating and managing the risks related to businesses or assets that we may acquire and in realizing the anticipated economic benefits related thereto. We do not have a great deal of experience acquiring companies or large blocks of assets, and the companies and assets we have acquired have been small. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. From time to time, we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and risk. The areas where we may face risks include: •The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; •Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; •Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; •Retaining employees working in the businesses or group of assets we acquire; 27 •The need to integrate the accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems of an acquired business or assets to permit effective management; •The possibility of increased customer attrition with respect to the assets we acquire; and •The need to secure adequate supplies of electricity and natural gas to service the demands of the acquired business or assets. Also, the anticipated benefit of many of our acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting; which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. We purchase substantially all of our power and natural gas under forward physical delivery contracts, which are defined as commodity derivative contracts under SFAS No. 133. We also utilize other financial derivatives, primarily swaps, options and futures, to hedge our price risks. Accordingly, proper accounting for these contracts is very important to our overall ability to report timely and accurate financial results. We have devoted significant resources to remediate and improve our internal controls. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal controls and addressed the concerns that gave rise to reportable conditions and material weaknesses in fiscal 2004 and 2005, we are continuing to work to improve our internal controls, particularly in the area of energy accounting and revenues. In connection with management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2008, we found that there are deficiencies in our internal controls over the existence, completeness and accuracy of revenues, cost of revenues, deferred revenues and associated accounts receivable. Management has determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness. This control deficiency did not result in any known financial statement misstatement. We have engaged an accounting firm to develop a stabilization plan for all parts of the revenue cycle and are working to identify and implement corrective actions to improve our internal controls. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide us with the attestation of the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring us, as a public company to include a report in our Annual Report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2008. In addition, our independent registered public accountants will be required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The requirement pertaining to our independent registered public accountant's attestation report may apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as soon as the fiscal year ending July 31, 2009, if our market capitalization exceeds $75 million on January 31, 2009, or, if not, the fiscal year ending July 31, 28 2010. How companies implement these requirements, including internal control revisions, if any, to comply with Section 404's requirements, and how independent registered public accountants will apply these new requirements and test companies' internal controls, are continually evolving. Although we are diligently and vigorously reviewing our internal controls over financial reporting to comply with the new Section 404 requirements, we cannot be certain as to the outcome of the testing of our internal controls and any remediation efforts that may be needed. When independent registered public accountant attestation is required, there is the risk that our independent registered public accountants may not be satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or that the independent registered public accountants interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares. War and threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our results of operations in unpredictable ways. We cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general and on our business in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect our operations. Such activity may have an adverse effect on the United States economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our financial results or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect our stock price and our ability to raise capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant. Information About Our Executive Officers Listed below are all of our executive officers as of October 16, 2008, followed by a brief account of their business experience during the past five years. Executive officers are elected by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships among these officers nor any 29 arrangements or understandings between any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer was selected. Name and Position Age Principal Occupation and Other Information Gregory L. Craig Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 44 Mr. Craig was appointed Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company in February 2008. Mr. Craig is also a director and serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company's principal operating subsidiary, Commerce Energy, Inc. From November 2005 until March 2007, Mr. Craig served as Chief Executive Officer of Macquarie Cook Energy, a multi-billion dollar revenue North American energy supply services company formed in connection with the purchase of Cook Inlet Energy Supply, LLC. From 1990 to November 2005, Mr. Craig served as Chief Executive Officer of Cook Inlet Energy Supply, LLC, and a multi-billion dollar revenue North America energy supply services company that he founded. Michael J. Fallquist Chief Operating Officer 31 Mr. Fallquist joined the Company as Chief Operating Officer in March 2008. Mr. Fallquist is also a director and Chief Operating Officer of the Company's principal operating subsidiary, Commerce Energy, Inc. From December 2005 to March 2008, Mr. Fallquist served as a Senior Manager in the Equity Markets Division of Macquarie Bank Limited, an international provider of banking, advisory and investment services in California. Prior to that, Mr. Fallquist was as a strategy consultant with Macquarie Bank Limited in Australia from August 2004 to December 2005. Prior to August 2004, Mr. Fallquist held consulting roles with Deloitte Consulting and Towers Perrin relating to natural gas and other energy fields. 30 Name and Position Age Principal Occupation and Other Information C. Douglas Mitchell Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 58 Mr. Mitchell joined the Company as Interim Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in January 2008 and was named Chief Financial Officer in July 2008. Mr. Mitchell has been a partner in the Orange County practice of Tatum, LLC, an executive services and consulting firm since 2004. While at Tatum, he served as Interim Chief Financial Officer for companies such as Nexiant, Inc., a provider of inventory management products from September 2007 to January 2008; Performance Teams Freight Systems, Inc., a logistics and transportation company from September 2006 to March 2007; Borland Software Corporation, a software company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market from September 2006 to March 2007; and eTelecare, a multi-national outsourcing and call center company from May 2004 to October 2006. Prior to May 2004, Mr. Mitchell served as Chief Financial Officer of Chicago Pizza & Brewery, Inc., a multi-location enterprise listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. David J. Yi Chief Risk Officer 38 Mr. Yi was appointed Chief Risk Officer of the Company in May 2008. From February 2007 to April 2008, Mr. Yi served as director of Accounting and Risk Control for Pacific Summit Energy LLC, a subsidiary of Sumitomo Corp. From December 2005 to January 2007, Mr. Yi served as Manager of Credit and Collateral for Southern California Edison; and from October 2003 to November 2005, he served as Chief Credit Officer of GearyEnergy, LLC located in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Prior to October 2003, Mr. Yi served as chief credit officer for Cook Inlet Energy Supply, LLC, a multi-billion dollar revenue North American energy supply services company. 31 Name and Position Age Principal Occupation and Other Information John H. Bomgardner Senior Vice President and General Counsel 48 Mr. Bomgardner was appointed Senior Vice President and General Counsel in July 2008. From May 2006 to May 2007, Mr. Bomgardner served as Assistant General Counsel of GATX Corporation, a NYSE listed financial services and transportation company. From March 2001 to May 2006, he served as Senior Counsel and from August 1998 to March 2001 he served as Counsel of GATX Corporation. Prior to August 1998, Mr. Bomgardner served as Assistant General Counsel of Koch Industries, Inc., a multi-billion dollar revenue diversified energy conglomerate and as General Counsel of its Koch Capital Services division. 