Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this annual report constitute "forward-looking statements." These forward-looking statements involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may or may not be outside our control and that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Specifically, the actions of competitors, suppliers and customers are generally outside of our control; and our ability to execute our business plans and to increase revenues and operating income are each dependent upon our ability to continue to expand our current businesses and to enter new business areas, as well as upon general economic conditions and other factors, including some of the factors identified as "Risk Factors" in this annual report and from time to time in our other SEC filings. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continues," or the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We do not intend to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, unless required by law. Risks Relating to Our Business A recently passed Argentina tariff may substantially increase the cost at the point of sale for certain imported electronics, including the products we sell, and thus will have a material adverse impact on our sales in Argentina. Argentina, one of the countries where we currently sell a significant amount of OEM products and where we generated 87% of our net sales in 2009, passed a new tariff in November 2009 affecting certain imported electronics, including wireless handsets. From the information we have obtained, this new tariff will impact the pricing at the point of sale in excess of 30%, and we expect it will reduce significantly the overall OEM sales volume in Argentina. We believe that this tariff will have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and prospects for our OEM products in Argentina. We buy a significant amount of our products from a limited number of suppliers, who may not provide us with competitive products at reasonable prices when we need them in the future. We purchase wireless handsets and accessories principally from wireless communications OEMs and distributors. We depend on these suppliers to provide us with adequate inventories of currently popular brand name products on a timely basis and on favorable pricing and other terms, as well as on these suppliers' quality products and services and financial stability. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, one vendor, Samsung Electronics de Amazonia, S.A., accounted for 89% of our total cost of sales. We currently have one exclusive and several non-exclusive agreements with our principal suppliers, which can be terminated on short notice and provide for certain territorial restrictions. Our suppliers may not offer us competitive products on favorable terms or with timely delivery. The increased costs on importation of wireless handsets and other products into Argentina resulting from the recently enacted tariff will significantly reduce our supply of competitive products for Argentina. In addition, new products from other manufacturers could impact the demand for products from manufacturers we represent. From time to time, we have been unable to obtain sufficient product supplies. Any failure or delay by our suppliers, particularly our one primary vendor, in supplying us with products on favorable terms may severely diminish our ability to obtain and deliver products to our customers on a timely and competitive basis. If we lose any of our principal suppliers, or if these suppliers are unable to fulfill our product needs, or if any principal supplier imposes substantial price 10 Table of Contents increases and alternative sources of supply are not readily available, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss or reduction in orders from principal customers or a reduction in prices we are able to charge these customers will have a negative impact upon our financial results. Our three largest customers in 2009, all carriers in South America, represented 28%, 28% and 18% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. In 2010, a customer accounting for 28%, has begun significantly reducing its purchases from us as a result of the newly enacted Argentina tariff on wireless handsets, among other electronic devices. Additional Argentina customers are expected to decrease or eliminate their purchases of imported wireless handsets in the coming fiscal quarters. The markets we serve are subject to significant price competition. Additionally, our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase products from us. For these and other reasons, such as competitive pricing and competitive pressures, customers may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than we have been able to charge in the past, and they could terminate our relationship or reduce their purchases from us in favor of lower-priced alternatives. In addition, we have experienced losses of certain customer bases through industry consolidation, a trend that may increase in our markets, and in the ordinary course of business. The further loss of any of our principal customers, a reduction in the amount of product or services our principal customers order from us or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have been experiencing net losses and expect that net losses may continue for the near future. If we continue to operate at a loss, our business may not be financially viable. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our net loss was $1.5 million. Although we had positive income from continued operations in 2009, we experienced losses and negative cash flows for the year ended 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had working capital of $24.4 million. Given the continued economic slowdown and contraction in the wider markets, including the Central and South American markets that we serve and generally globally, we cannot adequately evaluate the financial viability of our business and our long-term prospects. While our business plan includes a number of objectives to achieve profitability, if we do not succeed in these objectives, our business might continue to experience losses and may not be sustainable in the future. We may not succeed in our introduction and establishment of proprietary products in our markets. The introduction and establishment of new products such as our proprietary verykool® line in our markets requires a significant investment in product development, manufacturing and marketing. These efforts may depress sales of existing products and may not be well received by our carrier customers and consumers. Further, failure to adequately carry out our product marketing, sales and delivery strategy or otherwise be successful in establishing our verykool® brand may result in significant inventory obsolescence, including inventory which we have built up in anticipation of market acceptance of our newer products. If any of these events occur, our financial condition and operating results would likely be negatively impacted. Our operating results may vary significantly, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our operating results are influenced by a number of factors, which may cause our sales and operating results to fluctuate greatly. These factors include: •product availability and pricing; •foreign government policies and stability; 11 Table of Contents •the addition or loss of supplier or customer relationships; •the timing of introduction of new products by our suppliers and competitors; •purchasing patterns of customers in different markets; •general economic conditions; •promotions and subsidies; and •changes in gross margins. For example, the closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between $2.51 and $0.10 from January 1, 2009 through March 19, 2010, and we anticipate significant volatility in such price to continue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to borrow under our secured credit facility may be limited. Under our secured bank credit facility, Wells Fargo Century, Inc. may advance us up to $45,000,000 based on the expected collections of eligible receivables as well as the value of our eligible inventory as determined in accordance with the terms of the facility. Any significant decrease in our level of eligible accounts receivable or inventory will reduce our ability to borrow additional funds under the credit facility and may affect our ability to adequately finance our operations and expansion strategies. Further, if we violate our loan covenants, default on our obligations or become subject to a change of control, our indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. In addition, the terms of our credit facility restrict us from incurring certain additional indebtedness, which could limit our ability to expand our operations. Some of our loan covenants subject us to, among other things, limits on our ability to sell certain assets and make certain payments, including, but not limited to, dividends, repurchases of common stock and other payments outside the normal course of business, as well as prohibits us regarding merging or consolidating with another corporation or selling all or substantially all of our assets. An inability to borrow needed funds under our credit facility could adversely affect our business' financial condition or operating results. Our ability to attain future profitability depends on our ability to increase existing margins, including through increased net sales, which we may not be able to do. The gross margins that we realize on sales of wireless handsets may not increase or could be reduced due to, among other things, increased competition, tariffs, taxes and other government regulations, and a growing industry and customer emphasis on cost containment, thereby limiting our ability to regain profitability. Our future profitability will continue to depend on our ability to increase our margins through increased sales (either through a higher volume of sales of wireless handset products or a higher average price per wireless handset product) or lower our cost of sales. However, we may not be able to increase existing margins for products or services we offer. Our ability to generate sales is based on demand for wireless handset products that we can deliver and our having an adequate supply of these products to cover demand. Even if our sales rates increase, the gross margins that we receive from our sales may not be sufficient to make our future operations profitable as our cost of sales may increase at higher rates. For example, in 2008, although we had higher sales, we were not profitable due to lower gross margins, as well as, among other things, higher operating expenses. If we cannot improve gross margins or increase sales in a profitable manner in the future, our financial results will be adversely affected and our stock price will likely decline. 12 Table of Contents Our business depends on the continued tendency of wireless handset manufacturers and carriers to outsource aspects of their business to us. Our business depends in large part on wireless handset manufacturers and carriers outsourcing some of their business functions to us. We provide functions such as product approval and testing, inventory management, product fulfillment, preparation of product kits, and customized packaging, light assembly and end-user support services. Certain wireless handset manufacturers and carriers have elected, and others may elect, to undertake these services internally. Additionally, our customer service levels, industry consolidation, competition, deregulation, technological changes or other factors could reduce the degree to which members of the wireless handset industry rely on outsourced services. We may not be able to effectively compete in our industry if consolidation of carriers continues or a change in product delivery routing occurs. Any significant change in the market for these services could have a material adverse effect on our current and planned business. We have and could continue to lose existing customers or orders and potential customers as a result of consolidation in the wireless telecommunications carrier industry. The past several years have witnessed a consolidation within the wireless carrier community, most notably in the United States, which was a factor in the recent discontinuation of our U.S. sales business, but also in the Latin American markets where we now focus our business. Consolidation has caused extreme price competition and reduced our number of customers and potential customers, and future consolidations could erode our current and potential markets. This could lead to, among other things, reduced sales volume and margins and greater fluctuations in our quarterly results as well as the carrying value of our inventory. If this trend continues, it also could result in a reduction or elimination of promotional activities by the remaining wireless carriers as they seek to reduce their expenditures which could, in turn, result in decreased demand for our products or services. Wireless carriers may also change their policies regarding sales to their agents by independent distributors, such as requiring those agents to purchase products from the carrier or manufacturer, rather than from distributors such as us. This type of requirement, or other competitive pressures resulting from consolidation, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if: we and/or our manufacturers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, or if our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect proprietary rights used in our verykool ® product line. Because our proprietary verykool® products are comprised of complex technology, we may be subject to or impacted by litigation regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our manufacturers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third parties have sought broad injunctive relief in our industry, which could ultimately limit our ability to sell our verykool® products. If any litigation arises and we do not succeed in such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain or all of our verykool ® products if we or our manufacturers are subject to a final injunction or other restrictions. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our manufacturers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, but we may not be successful in our negotiations. Also, any manufacturer's indemnity may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us due to a potentially infringing verykool® product, and a manufacturer may not choose to accept a 13 Table of Contents license or to modify or replace its products with non-infringing products, which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a manufacturer or influence any ultimate outcome that may adversely impact our sales, such as an injunction or other restrictions that relating to our verykool® products. In addition, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our or our manufacturers' proprietary information or develop similar technology relating to our verykool® products independently. Furthermore, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited, including in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our or our manufacturers' intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our or our manufacturers' intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. Our sales and inventory risk may be materially affected by fluctuations in regional demand patterns and economic factors for which we cannot plan. The demand for our products and services has fluctuated and may continue to vary substantially within the regions served by us. We believe the roll-out of third generation, or 3G, wireless telephone systems and other new technologies has had and will continue to have a beneficial effect on overall subscriber growth and wireless handset replacement demand, both factors that tend to favor our business plan. However, the continued worldwide economic slowdown has impacted the regions served by us, led to changes in promotional programs offered by wireless carriers or customer preferences and lowered consumer demand for our products, all of which have been negative factors for our gross and operating margins, particularly in 2008. In 2008, we also faced substantial inventory risk, resulting in the sale of some products at a considerable loss, and in 2009, we suffered a one-time loss on discontinued inventory. Though we have seen an increase in the demand for handsets beginning in the third quarter of 2009, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue and it is difficult to predict future demand patterns. All of our revenues from continuing operations during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 were generated outside of the United States in countries that may have volatile currencies or other risks. We now engage in all of our significant sales activities in territories and countries outside of the United States, specifically in Central and South America. All our sales transactions are completed in U.S. dollars and therefore may be impacted by changes in the strength of the U.S. dollar. Further, the fact that we distribute a substantial amount of our products into a number of territories and countries other than the United States exposes us to, among other things, increased credit risks, customs duties, import quotas and other trade restrictions, potentially greater and more unpredictable inflationary and currency pressures, and shipping delays. Changes may occur in social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment in the territories and countries where we currently distribute products. United States laws and regulations relating to investment and trade in foreign countries could also change to our detriment. Any of these factors could have material adverse effects on our business and operations. Also, although we purchase and sell products and services in U.S. dollars and do not engage in exchange swaps, futures or options contracts or other hedging techniques, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce demand for products sold in U.S. dollars. We cannot predict the effect that future exchange rate fluctuations will have on our operating results or financial position. We may in the future engage in currency hedging transactions, which could result in our incurring significant additional financial risks, including increased costs and losses resulting from these transactions. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately respond to rapid technological changes in the wireless handset industry, which could cause us to lose customers. The technology relating to wireless handsets changes rapidly, resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. We are required to anticipate future technological changes in our industry and to continually identify, obtain and market new products that will satisfy evolving industry and customer requirements. While our top vendors have historically kept their products competitive, and we aim to keep our proprietary products competitive in terms of technological changes, there is no guarantee they or we will continue to do so, which could materially affect our business. Competitors or manufacturers of wireless handsets may market products which have perceived or actual advantages over products that we market or which otherwise render those products obsolete or less marketable. We have made and continue to make significant capital investments in accordance with evolving industry and customer requirements, including maintaining levels of inventories of currently popular products that we believe are necessary based on current market conditions. This utilization of capital for product development and inventory buildup of this nature increases our risk of loss due to possible product obsolescence. Furthermore, if we do not adequately anticipate future technological changes, we may not have established adequate relationships with suppliers or performed appropriate product development. These factors all pose significant risks of loss of customers, decreased sales and impairment of inventory assets. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivables could have a significant negative impact on our cash flow and financial condition. We offer open account terms to certain of our customers, both large and small, which may subject us to credit risks, particularly to the extent that our receivables represent sales to a limited number of customers or are concentrated in particular geographic markets. Although we have an accounts receivable insurance policy, this policy carries a substantial deductible and may not cover our liability in all instances. We also rely on our accounts receivable-based credit facility to reduce our working capital requirements. The extent of our ability to use our accounts receivable-based credit facility is dependent on the amount of and collection cycle of our accounts receivable. Adverse changes in our ability to use accounts receivable financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. We rely on our suppliers to provide favorable terms, including payment terms, in order for us to make appropriate product purchases, and without such terms, our ability to procure products could be impacted. Much of our business is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate supplies of currently popular products on favorable pricing and other terms. Our ability to fund our product purchases is dependent on our principal suppliers providing favorable payment terms that allow us to maximize the efficiency of our capital usage. The payment terms we receive from our suppliers are dependent on several factors, including, but not limited to, our payment history with the supplier, the suppliers' credit granting policies, contractual provisions, our overall credit rating as determined by various credit rating agencies, industry conditions, our recent operating results, financial position and cash flows, and each supplier's ability to obtain credit insurance on amounts that we owe them. Adverse changes in any of these factors, certain of which may not be wholly in our control, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We rely on our information technology systems to function efficiently, without interruptions, and if it does not, customer relationships could be harmed. We have focused on the application of our information technology systems to provide customized services to wireless handset manufacturers and carriers. Our ability to meet our customers' technical and performance requirements is highly dependent on the effective functioning of our information 15 Table of Contents technology systems, which may experience interruptions, including interruptions of related services from third-party providers which may be beyond our control. These business interruptions could cause us to fail to meet customer requirements and could result in the loss of business relationships. Some of our information technology systems are managed and operated by third-party providers. All information technology systems, both internal and external, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures, as well as third-party provider failures. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a systems failure or security breach or other problem with our information technology systems could negatively impact our operations and financial results. We face risks related to our dependence on third parties to manufacture the products we distribute, including our proprietary verykool® products. Product manufacturers typically provide limited or no warranties on their products, whether directly to us or to the end consumer. We generally pass through any warranties received from our manufacturers to our customers, and in absence of such warranties, we are solely responsible for the products. If a product we distribute from a manufacturer has quality or performance problems, our ability to provide satisfactory products to our customers could be disrupted and our reputation could be impaired. We also may not be able to sell these products before payment is due our manufactures or at prices above our cost. These risks are magnified for our verykool® products, which are manufactured exclusively for us, and for which we carry greater financial risk of the inventory. Any of these risks could have a negative impact on our business and operations. The wireless handset industry is intensely competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete against well-established competitors with greater resources. We compete for sales of wireless handsets and accessories with numerous well-established carriers, distributors and manufacturers, including our own suppliers. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do and may market similar products or services directly to our customers. Distribution of wireless handsets and accessories has generally had low barriers to entry. As a result, additional competitors may choose to enter our industry in the future. The markets for wireless handsets and accessories are characterized by intense price competition and significant price erosion over the life of a product. Many of our competitors have the financial resources to withstand substantial price competition and to implement extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter into new markets or introduce new products. Our ability to continue to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to maintain our current industry relationships, with both manufacturers and carrier customers. We may not be successful in anticipating and responding to competitive factors affecting our industry or these relationships, including new or changing outsourcing requirements, the entry of additional well-capitalized competitors, introduction of new products, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, international, national, regional and local economic conditions, and competitors' discount pricing and promotion strategies. As wireless telecommunications markets mature, and as we seek to enter into new markets in the Central and South American region and offer new products, the competition that we face may change and grow more intense. We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, which may not afford adequate protection. We rely on trade secret laws to protect our proprietary knowledge, particularly our database of customers and suppliers, business terms such as pricing, and the information and technology related to our verykool® brand. In general, we also have non-disclosure agreements with our key employees and 16 Table of Contents limit disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These measures may prove difficult to enforce and may not prove adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. We are dependent on a small number of personnel. Our success depends in large part on the abilities and continued service of our executive officers, particularly Joseph Ram, our CEO and largest stockholder, and other key employees. In 2009 we experienced the departure of two executive officers, and we are currently seeking to hire a permanent Chief Financial Officer. We may be unable to replace senior management with qualified individuals or retain the services of other key employees. The loss of executive officers or other key personnel could impede our ability to fully and timely implement our business plan and future growth strategy. In addition, in order to support our continued growth, we will be required to effectively recruit, develop and retain additional qualified management. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary personnel could also delay or prevent us from executing our planned growth strategy. We may become subject to lawsuits alleging medical risks associated with our wireless handsets, the cost of which could be substantial. Lawsuits or claims have been filed or made against manufacturers of wireless handsets alleging possible medical risks, including brain cancer, associated with the electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets. There has been only limited relevant research in this area, and this research has not been conclusive as to what effects, if any, exposure to electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets has on human cells. Substantially all of our revenues are derived, either directly or indirectly, from sales of wireless handsets. We may become subject to lawsuits filed by plaintiffs alleging various health risks from our products. If any future studies find possible health risks associated with the use of wireless handsets, or if any damages claim against us or a business partner is successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even an unsubstantiated perception that health risks exist could adversely affect our ability or the ability of our customers to market wireless handsets. Risks Related To Our Common Stock The market for our common stock is volatile and our stock price could decline. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares and could depress the market price of their shares. The stock market in general, including the market for telecommunications-related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. For example, the closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between $2.51 and $0.10 from January 1, 2009 through March 19, 2010. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to remain volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, resulting in a substantial loss on their investment. We may be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market if we do not satisfy continued listing requirements. In 2008 and 2009, we faced potential delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market for failure to maintain the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing. If in the future we fail to comply with the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market, including the minimum bid price requirement, our common stock would be delisted from that market. 17 Table of Contents If we are delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, we may apply to transfer our common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market. However, our application may not be granted if we do not satisfy the applicable listing requirements for The NASDAQ Capital Market at the time of the application. Even if we successfully transfer our common stock to The NASDAQ Capital Market, but are unable to satisfy the minimum bid price requirement or any of the other continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock would be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares and our share price may be adversely affected. If our common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market and we could not satisfy the listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading would reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, thereby negatively impacting the share price of our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market and we could not satisfy the listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a "penny stock" (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or "margin" low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers' commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock, thereby negatively impacting the share price of our common stock. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies or effect a change in control of our company is limited, which may not be in our stockholders' best interests. Some provisions of our charter and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of Maryland, under which we are incorporated, may delay or prevent a change in control of our company or other transactions that could provide our common stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock or that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include the ability of our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions can occur. These provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us even if the acquisition would be advantageous to our stockholders. 18 Table of Contents Stockholders have been and may be diluted as a result of past or future offerings or other financings or equity grants. We have and may in the future raise additional capital through one or more public offerings, private placements or other financings involving our securities and have made or may make stock option and other equity incentive grants. As a result of these financings or grants, ownership interests in us may be diluted, potentially substantially. Our largest stockholder may have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders, and can significantly influence important corporate matters. As of March 19, 2010, our Chief Executive Officer Joseph Ram, beneficially owned approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Ram may be able to significantly influence corporate actions relating to: •controlling the composition of our board of directors; •controlling our management and policies; •determining the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may not be beneficial to other stockholders; and •acting in his own interest, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments—None. 