ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, our financial condition, and our ability to raise additional capital in the future or ever become profitable. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to our Development of our Product Candidates All of our product candidates are in the early stages of development and their commercial viability remains subject to the successful outcome of current and future preclinical studies, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and the risks generally inherent in the development of pharmaceutical product candidates. If we are unable to successfully advance or develop our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. In the near-term, failure to successfully advance the development of one or more of our product candidates may have a material adverse effect on us. To date, we have not successfully developed or commercially marketed, distributed or sold any product candidates. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to successfully advance the development of our product candidates through preclinical studies and clinical trials, have these product candidates approved for sale by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries, and ultimately have our product candidates successfully commercialized by us or a strategic collaborator. We cannot assure you that the results of our ongoing preclinical studies or clinical trials will support or justify the continued development of our product candidates, or that we will receive approval from 27 Table of Contents the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, to advance the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous regulatory standards of safety and efficacy before we can advance or complete their clinical development or they can be approved for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy preclinical studies and clinical trials, develop acceptable manufacturing processes, and obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Despite these efforts, our product candidates may not: • offer therapeutic or other medical benefits over existing drugs or other product candidates in development to treat the same patient population; • be proven to be safe and effective in current and future preclinical studies or clinical trials; • have the desired effects; • be free from undesirable or unexpected effects; • meet applicable regulatory standards; • be capable of being formulated and manufactured in commercially suitable quantities and at an acceptable cost; or • be successfully commercialized by us or by collaborators. Even if we demonstrate favorable results in preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials, we cannot assure you that the results of late-stage clinical trials will be favorable enough to support the continued development of our product candidates. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries have experienced significant delays, setbacks and failures in all stages of development, including late-stage clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in preclinical testing or early-stage clinical trials. Accordingly, results from completed preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage trials. Furthermore, even if the data collected from preclinical studies and clinical trials involving any of our product candidates demonstrate a satisfactory safety and efficacy profile, such results may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA or BLA to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the U.S., or other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, which is required to market and sell the product. Our product candidates will require significant additional research and development efforts, the commitment of substantial financial resources, and regulatory approvals prior to advancing into further clinical development or being commercialized by us or collaborators. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will successfully progress through the drug development process or will result in a commercially viable product. We do not expect any of our product candidates to be commercialized by us or collaborators for at least several years. If the actual or perceived therapeutic benefits or the safety profile of INX-189 are not equal to or better than other competing anti-viral treatments approved for sale or in clinical development, or if the dosing of INX-189 is not amenable to combination with other existing or future anti-viral therapies for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, we may terminate the development of INX-189 at any time, or our ability to generate significant revenue from the sale of INX-189, if approved, may be limited and our potential profitability could be harmed. We are aware of a number of companies developing various classes of direct acting antiviral product candidates for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, some of which are of a similar class to INX-189. Many of these product candidates are further advanced in clinical development than INX-189, therefore their time to approval and commercialization may be sooner than that for INX-189. Accordingly, if at any time we believe that INX-189 may not provide meaningful therapeutic benefits, perceived or real, equal to or better than our competitor’s compounds, or we believe that INX-189 may not have as favorable a safety profile as potentially competitive compounds, or we believe INX-189 may not be amendable for use in a combination therapy with 28 Table of Contents existing or future treatments for chronic hepatitis C, we may delay or terminate the future development of INX-189 at any time. We cannot provide any assurance that future preclinical studies or clinical trials of INX-189 will demonstrate any meaningful therapeutic benefits over potentially competitive compounds in development, an acceptable safety profile sufficient to justify its continued development, or whether INX-189 is amenable to combination therapy with the current standard of care or future approved anti-virals for the treatment of hepatitis C. Our product candidates may exhibit undesirable side effects when used alone or in combination with other approved pharmaceutical products or investigational new drugs, which may delay or preclude their further development or regulatory approval, or limit their use if approved. Throughout the drug development process, we must continually demonstrate the safety and tolerability of our product candidates to obtain regulatory approval to further advance their clinical development or to market them. Even if our product candidates demonstrate biologic activity and clinical efficacy, any unacceptable adverse side effects or toxicities, when administered alone or in the presence of other pharmaceutical products, which can arise at any stage of development, may outweigh their potential benefit. In preclinical studies and clinical trials we have conducted to date, our product candidates have demonstrated an acceptable safety profile, although these studies and trials have involved a small number of subjects or patients over a limited period of time. We may observe adverse or significant adverse events or drug-drug interactions in future preclinical studies or clinical trials of these product candidates, which could result in the delay or termination of their development, prevent regulatory approval, or limit their market acceptance if they are ultimately approved. The safety or antiviral profile of INX-189 may differ in combination therapy with other existing or future drugs used to treat chronic hepatitis C, and therefore may preclude its further development or approval, which could materially harm our business. It is anticipated that in the future, the optimized treatment of chronic hepatitis C will involve the combination of at least two or more antiviral compounds. Accordingly, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials of other investigational direct acting antiviral agents, some similar to INX-189, are now being conducted in combination with the current standard of care. Therefore, the clinical development and commercialization pathway for INX-189, or any other product candidate we may develop in the future for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, will likely require that it be evaluated in clinical trials in combination with other currently-approved antivirals or those still in development. Even if INX-189 demonstrates meaningful therapeutic benefits equal to or better than other similar compounds in development, an acceptable safety profile, and a dose amenable to combination therapy in Phase 2 and other future-stage clinical trials, when combined with other existing or HCV therapies, it may demonstrate unexpected side effects. We cannot assure you that INX-189 will be amenable for use in combination with existing or future antiviral HCV therapies in clinical development. Further, to evaluate INX-189 in combination therapy with other antivirals in clinical development may require us to establish collaborations, licensing arrangements or alliances with third parties. There is no assurance we will be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms, or at all. The development of INX-189 in combination with other drugs may present additional risks beyond those inherent in the drug development of INX-189 administered alone. We are developing INX-189 to treat chronic infections caused by HCV. Potential therapeutic regimens currently being tested, or anticipated to be tested in the future, include INX-189 in combination with: • pegylated interferon and ribavirin, which in combination are considered to be the current standard of care; • pegylated interferon alone; • ribavirin alone; • other yet-to-be-approved direct acting antiviral agents currently in clinical development; and 29 Table of Contents • pegylated interferon and/or ribavirin plus one or more direct acting antiviral agents in clinical development or approved for sale in the future. These potential therapeutic regimens and planned clinic studies of INX-189 in combination with other approved and unapproved agents are subject to regulatory, commercial, manufacturing, and other risks that may be additional to the risks of developing a product candidate that is not used in combination. Regulatory guidelines for the use of direct acting antiviral drugs are evolving in the United States, Europe, and other countries. We anticipate that regulatory guidelines and regulatory agency responses to our and our competitors’ development programs will continue to change, resulting in the risk that our activities may not meet unanticipated new standards or requirements, which could lead to delay, additional expense, or potential failure of our development activities. Our development program for INX-189 may involve the testing of it in combination with unapproved product candidates, which may increase the risk of significant adverse effects or clinical failure. In order for us to pursue this combination strategy, we may need to engage the interest of other bio-pharmaceutical or pharmaceutical companies to do so, as we do not have another direct antiviral to combine with INX-189. Our ability to engage this interest will be impacted by other companies’ perceived need to combine with an agent such as INX-189, as well as the risk involved in combining their agent with an unapproved product candidate such as INX-189. If they establish criteria for combination that we have not yet satisfied with INX-189, we could experience difficulties or delays in pursuing such combination trials. If we are unable to combine INX-189 with other unapproved direct acting antiviral agents, our business prospects could be harmed. There is no assurance that in future clinical studies of INX-189, where it may be dosed for longer duration or in combination with other agents, that we will be able to identify safe and tolerable doses that result in clinical benefit, as measured by the clearance of the virus and sustainability of such clearance. Future clinical development of INX-189 is anticipated to include trials where INX-189 will be dosed for up to 12 weeks, and potentially longer, with current standard of care and/ or other approved or unapproved direct acting antivirals. The ongoing Phase 1b study is evaluating the safety, tolerability and antiviral activity of several doses of INX-189 for seven days. It is possible that the safety and tolerability of INX-189 over longer durations of treatment may be inferior to that observed at the same dose levels at a shorter duration of treatment. If the tolerability of doses of INX-189 required for long-term treatment of HCV patients is unacceptable or unfavorable relative to competitive product candidates, then the prospects for developing INX-189 as a treatment for chronic hepatitis C may diminished, causing our business to be harmed. If the actual or perceived therapeutic benefits of FV-100 are not sufficiently different from existing generic drugs currently used to treat shingles or reduce or prevent shingles-associated pain and PHN, we may terminate the development of FV-100 at any time, or our ability to generate significant revenue from the sale of FV-100, if approved, may be limited and our potential profitability could be harmed. Valacyclovir, famciclovir and acyclovir are existing generic drugs currently used to treat shingles patients. Generic drugs are compounds that have no remaining patent protection, and generally have an average selling price substantially lower than drugs that are protected by patents and intellectual property rights. Unless a patented drug can differentiate itself from generic drugs treating the same condition or disease in a clinically meaningful manner, the existence of generic competition in any indication may impose significant pricing pressure on patented drugs. Accordingly, if at any time we believe that FV-100 may not provide meaningful therapeutic benefits, perceived or real, over these existing generic drugs, we may delay or terminate its future development. We cannot provide any assurance that later-stage clinical trials of FV-100, will demonstrate any meaningful therapeutic benefits over existing generic drugs sufficient to justify its continued development. Further, if we successfully develop FV-100 and it is approved for sale, we cannot assure you that any real or perceived therapeutic benefits of FV-100 over generic drugs will result in it being prescribed by physicians or commanding a price higher than the existing generic drugs. 30 Table of Contents If the results of preclinical studies or clinical trials for our product candidates, including those that are subject to existing or future license or collaboration agreements, are unfavorable or delayed, we could be delayed or precluded from the further development or commercialization of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. In order to further advance the development of, and ultimately receive regulatory approval to sell, our product candidates, we must conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, as the case may be. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, complex, can take many years to complete, and have highly uncertain outcomes. Delays, setbacks, or failures can occur at any time, or in any phase of preclinical or clinical testing, and can result from concerns about safety or toxicity, a lack of demonstrated efficacy or superior efficacy over other similar products that have been approved for sale or are in more advanced stages of development, poor study or trial design, and issues related to the formulation or manufacturing process of the materials used to conduct the trials. The results of prior preclinical studies or clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of the results we may observe in later stage clinical trials. In many cases, product candidates in clinical development may fail to show desired safety and efficacy characteristics despite having favorably demonstrated such characteristics in preclinical studies or earlier stage clinical trials. In addition, we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical studies and the clinical trial process, which could delay or impede our ability to advance the development of, receive regulatory approval for, or commercialize our product candidates, including, but not limited to: • communications with the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities in different countries, regarding the scope or design of a trial or trials; • regulatory authorities or IRBs not authorizing us to commence or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • enrollment in our clinical trials being delayed, or proceeding at a slower pace than we expected, because we have difficulty recruiting patients or participants dropping out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipated; • our third party contractors, upon whom we rely for conducting preclinical studies, clinical trials and manufacturing of our trial materials, may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • having to suspend or ultimately terminate our clinical trials if participants are being exposed to unacceptable health or safety risks; • IRBs or regulators requiring that we hold, suspend or terminate our preclinical studies and clinical trials for various reasons, including non-compliance with regulatory requirements; and • the supply or quality of drug material necessary to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials being insufficient, inadequate or unavailable. Even if the data collected from preclinical studies or clinical trials involving our product candidates demonstrate a satisfactory safety and efficacy profile, such results may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA or BLA to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the U.S., or other similar foreign regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions, which is required to market and sell the product. If third party vendors upon whom we rely to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials do not perform or fail to comply with strict regulations, these studies or trials of our product candidates may be delayed, terminated, or fail, or we could incur significant additional expenses, which could materially harm our business. We have limited resources dedicated to designing, conducting and managing preclinical studies and clinical trials. We have historically relied, and intend to continue to rely, on third parties, including clinical research organizations, consultants and principal investigators, to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and 31 Table of Contents conducting our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We rely on these vendors and individuals to perform many facets of the drug development process, including certain preclinical studies, the recruitment of sites and patients for participation in our clinical trials, maintenance of good relations with the clinical sites, and ensuring that these sites are conducting our trials in compliance with the trial protocol and applicable regulations. If these third parties fail to perform satisfactorily, or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates may be delayed or prove unsuccessful. Further, the FDA may inspect some of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials in the U.S., or our third-party vendors’ sites, to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to GCPs. If we or the FDA determine that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with, or have not conducted our clinical trials according to, applicable regulations we may be forced to delay, repeat or terminate such clinical trials. We have limited capacity for recruiting and managing clinical trials, which could impair our timing to initiate or complete clinical trials of our product candidates and materially harm our business. We have limited capacity to recruit and manage the clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval or approval by other regulatory authorities. By contrast, larger pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical companies often have substantial staffs with extensive experience in conducting clinical trials with multiple product candidates across multiple indications. In addition, they may have greater financial resources to compete for the same clinical investigators and patients that we are attempting to recruit for our clinical trials. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage that could delay the initiation, recruitment, timing, completion of our clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals, if at all, for our product candidates . We and our collaborators must comply with extensive government regulations in order to advance our product candidates through the development process and ultimately obtain and maintain marketing approval for our products in the U.S. and abroad. Product candidates that we or our collaborators are developing require regulatory approval to advance through clinical development and to ultimately be marketed and sold, and are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic and foreign government regulation. In the U.S., the FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products. Our product candidates are also subject to similar regulation by foreign governments to the extent we seek to develop or market them in those countries. We, or our collaborators, must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, if applicable, with preclinical and clinical data, as well as data supporting an acceptable manufacturing process, that appropriately demonstrate our product candidates’ safety and efficacy before they can be approved for the targeted indications. None of our product candidates have been approved for sale in the U.S. or any foreign market, and we cannot predict whether we or our collaborators will obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate we are developing or plan to develop. The regulatory review and approval process can take many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity, novelty of, and medical need for the product candidate, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, and involves post-marketing surveillance and vigilance and ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or Phase 4 clinical trials. In addition, we or our collaborators may encounter delays in, or fail to gain, regulatory approval for our product candidates based upon additional governmental regulation resulting from future legislative, administrative action or changes in FDA policy or interpretation during the period of product development. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to advance our product candidates through clinical development, and ultimately commercialize them, may: • adversely impact our ability to raise sufficient capital to fund the development of the program candidates; • adversely affect our ability to further develop or commercialize any of our product candidates; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborators may have or attain; and • adversely affect the receipt of potential milestone payments and royalties from the sale of our products or product revenues. 32 Table of Contents Furthermore, any regulatory approvals, if granted, may later be withdrawn. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any time, or if post-approval safety concerns arise, we or our collaborators may be subject to restrictions or a number of actions, including: • delays, suspension or termination of clinical trials related to our products; • refusal by regulatory authorities to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. Additionally, at any time we or our collaborators may voluntarily suspend or terminate the preclinical or clinical development of a product candidate, or withdraw any approved product from the market if we believe that it may pose an unacceptable safety risk to patients, or if the product candidate or approved product no longer meets our business objectives. The ability to develop or market a pharmaceutical product outside of the U.S. is contingent upon receiving appropriate authorization from the respective foreign regulatory authorities. Foreign regulatory approval processes typically include many, if not all, of the risks and requirements associated with the FDA regulatory process for drug development and may include additional risks. We have limited experience in the development of small molecule antiviral product candidates and therefore may encounter difficulties developing our product candidates or managing our operations in the future. Our two lead antiviral product candidates, INX-189 and FV-100, are chemical compounds, also referred to as small molecules. We have limited experience in the discovery, development and manufacturing of these small molecule antiviral compounds. In order to successfully develop these product candidates, we must continuously supplement our research, clinical development, regulatory, medicinal chemistry, virology and manufacturing capabilities through the addition of key employees, consultants or third-party contractors to provide certain capabilities and skill sets that we do not possess. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain such qualified employees, consultants or third-party contractors with appropriate small molecule antiviral drug development experience. In the event we cannot attract such capabilities or successfully develop or manage our antiviral pipeline, our business could be materially harmed. If we are unable to retain or attract key employees, advisors or consultants, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all, or otherwise manage our business effectively. We have adopted an operating model that largely relies on the outsourcing of a number of responsibilities and key activities to third-party consultants, and contract research and manufacturing organizations in order to advance the development of our product candidates. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to retain highly qualified key management, personnel, and directors to develop, implement and execute our business strategy, operate the company and oversee the activities of our consultants and contractors, as well as academic and corporate advisors or consultants to assist us in this regard. We are currently highly dependent upon the efforts of our management team. In order to develop our product candidates, we need to retain or attract certain personnel, consultants or advisors with experience in a number of disciplines, including research and development, clinical trials, medical matters, government regulation of pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, formulation and chemistry, business development, accounting, finance, human resources and information systems. Although we have not experienced material difficulties in retaining key personnel in the past, we may not be able to continue to do so in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If we lose any key managers or employees, or are unable to attract and retain qualified key personnel, directors, advisors or consultants, the development of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated and our business may be harmed. 33 Table of Contents If third-party contract manufacturers upon whom we rely to formulate and manufacture our product candidates do not perform, fail to manufacture according to our specifications or fail to comply with strict regulations, our preclinical studies or clinical trials could be adversely affected and the development of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated or we could incur significant additional expenses. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We have historically contracted with third-party contract manufacturers and organizations to formulate and manufacture the preclinical and clinical materials we use to test our product candidates in development. We intend to continue to rely on third-party contractors, at least for the foreseeable future, to formulate and manufacture these preclinical and clinical materials. Our reliance on third-party contract manufacturers exposes us to a number of risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of our preclinical studies or clinical trials, or the regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues. Some of these risks include: • our third-party contractors failing to develop an acceptable formulation to support later-stage clinical trials for, or the commercialization of, our product candidates; • our contract manufacturers failing to manufacture our product candidates according to their own standards, our specifications, cGMPs, or otherwise manufacturing material that we or the FDA may deem to be unsuitable in our clinical trials; • our contract manufacturers being unable to increase the scale of, increase the capacity for, or reformulate the form of our product candidates. We may experience a shortage in supply, or the cost to manufacture our products may increase to the point where it adversely affects the cost of our product candidates. We cannot assure you that our contract manufacturers will be able to manufacture our products at a suitable scale, or we will be able to find alternative manufacturers acceptable to us that can do so; • our contract manufacturers placing a priority on the manufacture of their own products, or other customers’ products; • our contract manufacturers failing to perform as agreed or not remain in the contract manufacturing business; and • our contract manufacturers’ plants being closed as a result of regulatory sanctions or a natural disaster. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with FDA-mandated cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit their performance, we do not have control over our third-party contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers, or us, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us or the drug manufacturer from the production of other third-party products. These sanctions may include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In the event that we need to change our third-party contract manufacturers, our preclinical studies, clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, adversely affected or terminated, or such a change may result in significantly higher costs. Due to regulatory restrictions inherent in an IND, NDA or BLA, various steps in the manufacture of our product candidates may need to be sole-sourced. In accordance with cGMPs, changing manufacturers may require the re- validation of manufacturing processes and procedures, and may require further preclinical studies or clinical trials to show comparability between the materials produced by different manufacturers. Changing our current or future contract manufacturers may be difficult for us and could be costly, which could result in our inability to manufacture our product candidates for an extended period of time and therefore a delay in the development of our product candidates. Further, in order to maintain our development time lines 34 Table of Contents in the event of a change in our third-party contract manufacturer, we may incur significantly higher costs to manufacture our product candidates. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or develop innovative products, which could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Key competitive factors in our industry include, among others, the ability to successfully advance the development of a product candidate through preclinical and clinical trials; the efficacy, toxicological, safety, resistance or cross-resistance, and dosing profile of a product or product candidate; the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, if ever achieved; reimbursement rates for and the average selling price of competing products and pharmaceutical products in general; the availability of raw materials and qualified contract manufacturing and manufacturing capacity; manufacturing costs; establishing and maintaining intellectual property and patent rights and their protection; and sales and marketing capabilities. If ultimately approved, INX-189 or FV-100, or any other product candidate we may develop, would compete against existing therapies or other product candidates in various stages of clinical development that we believe may potentially become available in the future for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, shingles-associated pain and the prevention of staphylococcal infections. Some of the large pharmaceutical companies that currently market products that would compete with our product candidates, if approved, include, but are not limited to: Merck and Roche in the hepatitis C market and GlaxoSmithKline and Merck in the shingles market. In addition to existing therapies, there are many other pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies developing numerous direct acting antiviral product candidates across various classes for the treatment for chronic hepatitis C, including, but not limited to, Abbott, Achillion, Anadys, Bristol Myers Squibb, Gilead, Idenix, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Pharmasset and Vertex, which may compete with INX-189 or any other HCV nucleotide polymerase inhibitor we may develop in the future. Most of the product candidates being developed by these companies, and in particular those that belong to the class of compounds referred to as protease inhibitors, are further advanced in their clinical development than INX-189. Further, Pharmasset and Idenix are developing nucleotide analogues, which are similar to the approach we are using for INX-189. Moreover, their lead nucleotide analogues have advanced further in clinical development and are currently in Phase 2 clinical trials. While there are many direct acting antivirals in various stages of clinical development, none has yet to be approved for sale by the FDA or the EMEA. However, it is widely anticipated that one or two protease inhibitors may be approved for sale by the FDA in 2011. Accordingly, the competitive landscape for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C is expected to be highly dynamic over the next five to ten years. In order to compete effectively in this market in the future, we believe a direct acting antiviral will need to demonstrate a favorable toxicity profile, superior potency across most or all HCV genotypes, high resistance barriers, and be amenable to combination with other direct acting antivirals in a low fixed oral dose. Developing pharmaceutical product candidates is a highly competitive, expensive and risky activity with a long business cycle. Many organizations, including the large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies that have existing products on the market or in clinical development that could compete with INX-189 or FV-100 have substantially more resources than we have, and much greater capabilities and experience than we have in research and discovery, designing and conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, operating in a highly regulated environment, manufacturing drug substances and drug products, and marketing and sales. Our competitors may be more successful than we are in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates and achieving broad market acceptance once they are approved. Our competitors’ drugs or product candidates may be more effective, have fewer negative side effects, be more convenient to administer, have a more favorable resistance profile, or be more effectively marketed and sold than any drug we, or our potential collaborators, may develop or commercialize. New drugs or classes of drugs from competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to successfully develop them or, if approved, before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing them. We anticipate that we or our collaborators will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs and drug classes enter the market and advanced technologies or new drug targets become available. If our product candidates do not 35 Table of Contents demonstrate any competitive advantages over existing drugs, new drugs or product candidates, we or our future collaborators may terminate the development or commercialization of our product candidates at any time. We anticipate that our product candidates, and in particular FV-100 if successfully developed and approved, will compete directly or indirectly with existing generic drugs. Generic drugs are drugs whose patent protection has expired, and generally have an average selling price substantially lower than drugs protected by intellectual property rights. Unless a patented drug can differentiate itself from a generic drug in a meaningful manner, the existence of generic competition in any indication may impose significant pricing pressure on competing patented drugs. We also face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, and for attracting investigators and clinical sites capable of conducting our preclinical studies and clinical trials. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are safer, more effective, less expensive or easier to administer than ours. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we can. Companies that can complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commercialize their products before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights that could delay the ability of competitors to market certain products. We cannot assure you that product candidates resulting from our research and development efforts, or from joint efforts with our collaborators, will be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ existing products or products under development. Our research and development efforts may not result in additional HCV product candidates being discovered, which could limit our ability to generate revenues in the future. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the discovery and development of any additional product candidates that would be suitable for further preclinical or clinical development to treat HCV. The discovery of additional HCV product candidates requires significant research and preclinical studies as well as a substantial commitment of resources. Many lead compounds that appear promising in preclinical studies fail to progress to become product candidates in clinical trials. There is a great deal of uncertainty inherent in the research and development process and, as a consequence, in our ability to advance the development of other promising HCV product candidates. Our sponsored research with academic and commercial institutions may be subject to restriction and change, which could harm our ability to discover new HCV polymerase inhibitors. We expect to continue to collaborate with chemists and biologists at academic and commercial institutions that assist us in our research and preclinical development efforts of HCV nucleotide polymerase inhibitors. Some of our product candidates were discovered with the research assistance of these chemists and biologists. Most of the scientists who have contributed to the discovery of our product candidates are not our employees and are employed by other institutions that may have other commitments or may elect not to contract with us in the future, which would limit their future availability to us. We do not have significant internal drug discovery capabilities, and therefore we are primarily dependent on in-licensing or acquiring development programs from third parties in order to obtain additional product candidates. We are currently focused on developing additional HCV nucleoside polymerase inhibitor compounds. If in the future we decide to further expand our pipeline, we will be largely dependent on in-licensing or acquiring product candidates as we do not have significant internal discovery capabilities at this time. Accordingly, in order to generate and expand our development pipeline, we have relied, and will continue to rely, on obtaining discoveries, new technologies, intellectual property and product candidates from third-parties through sponsored research, in-licensing arrangements or acquisitions. We may face substantial competition from other 36 Table of Contents biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, many of which may have greater resources then we have, in obtaining these in-licensing, sponsored research or acquisition opportunities. Additional in-licensing or acquisition opportunities may not be available to us on terms we find acceptable, if at all. In-licensed compounds that appear promising in research or in preclinical studies may fail to progress into further preclinical studies or clinical trials. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the nomination of any additional product candidates that would be suitable for further preclinical or clinical development. The discovery of additional product candidates requires significant time, as well as a substantial commitment of personnel and financial resources. There is a great deal of uncertainty inherent in our research efforts and as a consequence our ability to expand our development pipeline with additional product candidates may not be successful. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us for uninsured liabilities, or such claim exceeds our insurance coverage, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards that could materially harm our business. The use of any of our existing or future product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved pharmaceutical products may expose us to significant product liability claims. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $5.0 million. Such insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims that may be brought against us in the future. We may not be able to acquire or maintain adequate product liability insurance coverage at a commercially reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. In the event any of our product candidates are approved for sale by the FDA and commercialized, we may need to substantially increase the amount of our product liability coverage. Defending any product liability claim or claims could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant financial loss. Our research activities involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials and medical waste. Notwithstanding the regulations controlling the use and disposal of these materials, as well as the safety procedures we undertake, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or exposure, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to the Commercialization of our Product Candidates We may delay or terminate the development of a product candidate at any time if we believe the perceived market or commercial opportunity does not justify further investment, which could materially harm our business. Even though the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials that we have conducted or may conduct in the future may support further development of one or more of our product candidates, we may delay, suspend or terminate the future development of a product candidate at any time for strategic, business, financial or other reasons, including the determination or belief that the emerging profile of the product candidate is such that it may not receive FDA approval, gain meaningful market acceptance, generate a significant return to shareholders, or otherwise provide any competitive advantages in its intended indication or market. If we fail to enter into collaborations, license agreements or other transactions with third parties to accelerate the development of our product candidates, we will bear the risk of developmental failure. We plan to seek outlicensing opportunities as a way to accelerate the development of any of our product candidates. There is no guarantee that we will enter into a future transaction on favorable terms, or at all, or 37 Table of Contents that discussions will initiate or progress on our desired timelines. Completing transactions of this nature is difficult and time-consuming. Potentially interested parties may decline to re-engage or may terminate discussions based upon their assessment of our competitive, financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for any other reason. Furthermore, we may choose to defer consummating a transaction relating to any of our product candidates until additional clinical data is obtained. If we decide do not actively pursue a transaction until we have additional clinical data, we and our stockholders will bear the risk that our product candidate fails prior to any future transaction. If we fail to enter into or maintain collaborations or other sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties to commercialize our product candidates, or otherwise fail to establish marketing and sales capabilities, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. We currently have no infrastructure to support the commercialization of any of our product candidates, and have little, if any, experience in the commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Therefore, if our product candidates are successfully developed and ultimately approved for sale, our future profitability will depend largely on our ability to access or develop suitable marketing and sales capabilities. We anticipate that we will need to establish relationships with other companies, through license and collaborations agreements, to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and in other countries around the world. To the extent that we enter into these license and collaboration agreements, or marketing and sales arrangements with other companies to sell, promote or market our products in the U.S. or abroad, our product revenues, which may be in the form of indirect revenue, a royalty, or a split of profits, will depend largely on their efforts, which may not be successful. In the event we develop a sales force and marketing capabilities, this may result in us incurring significant costs before the time that we may generate any significant product revenues. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified third parties or marketing or sales personnel, or be able to establish marketing capabilities or an effective sales force. If government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate reimbursement or coverage for our products or those we develop through collaborations, our revenues and potential for profitability will be harmed. In the U.S. and most foreign markets, our product revenues, and therefore the inherent value of our product candidates, will depend largely upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payers for such product candidates or products. Such third-party payers include government health administration authorities, managed-care organizations, private health insurers and other similar organizations. These third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products, services and pharmaceuticals. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved drugs or pharmaceutical products. Further, the comparative effectiveness of new compounds over existing therapies and the assessment of other non-clinical outcomes are increasingly being considered in the decision by these payers to establish reimbursement rates. We may also need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any products we successfully develop will be reimbursed in part, or at all, by any third-party payers in any countries. Domestic and foreign governments continue to propose legislation designed to expand the coverage, yet reduce the cost, of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drugs. In some foreign markets, governmental agencies control prescription drugs’ pricing and profitability. In the U.S. significant changes in federal health care policy have been recently approved and will mostly likely result in reduced reimbursement rates in the future. We expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement more governmental control over reimbursement rates of pharmaceutical products. In addition, we expect that increasing emphasis on managed care and government intervention in the U.S. healthcare system will continue to put downward pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products domestically. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our product candidates that may be approved for sale in the future, which would limit our revenues and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products may change before our product candidates are approved for sale, which could further 38 Table of Contents limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for our product candidates. Further, pressure from social activist groups, whose goal it is to reduce the cost of drugs, particularly in less developed nations, may also place downward pressure on the price of drugs, which could result in downward pressure on the prices of our products in the absence of generic competition. If any product candidates that we develop independently or through collaborations are approved but do not gain meaningful acceptance in their intended markets, we are not likely to generate significant revenues or become profitable. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and we or a collaborator obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to commercialize them in the future, they may not gain market acceptance or utilization among physicians, patients or third party payers. The degree of market acceptance that any of our product candidates may achieve will depend on a number of factors, including: • the therapeutic efficacy or perceived benefit of the product relative to existing therapies, if they exist; • the timing of market approval and existing market for competitive drugs; • the level of reimbursement provided by payers to cover the cost of the product to patients; • the net cost of the product to the user or payer; • the convenience and ease of administration of our product; • the product’s potential advantages over existing or alternative therapies; • the actual or perceived safety of similar classes of products; • the actual or perceived existence, prevalence and severity of negative side effects; • the effectiveness of sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and • the scope of the product label approved by the FDA. There can be no assurance that physicians will choose to prescribe or administer our products, if approved, to the intended patient population. If our products do not achieve meaningful market acceptance, or if the market for our products proves to be smaller than anticipated, we may not generate significant revenues or ever become profitable. Even if we or a collaborator achieve market acceptance for our products, we may experience downward pricing pressure on the price of our products due to social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which would reduce our revenue and future profitability. Pressure from social activist groups and future government regulations, whose goal it is to reduce the cost of drugs, particularly in less developed nations, also may put downward pressure on the price of drugs, which could result in downward pressure on the prices of our products in the future. We may be unable to successfully develop a product candidate that is the subject of collaboration if our collaborator does not perform, terminates our agreement, or delays the development of our product candidate. We expect to continue to enter into and rely on license and collaboration agreements or other business arrangements with third parties to further develop and/or commercialize our existing and future product candidates. Such collaborators or partners may not perform as agreed upon or anticipated, fail to comply with strict regulations, or elect to delay or terminate their efforts in developing or commercializing our product candidates even though we have met our obligations under the arrangement. For example, if an existing or future collaborator does not devote sufficient time and resources to our collaboration arrangement, we may not realize the full potential benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents A majority of the potential revenue from existing and future collaborations will likely consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving development or regulatory milestones and royalties payable on the sales of approved products. The milestone and royalty revenues that we may receive under these collaborations will depend primarily upon our collaborator’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, our collaborators may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize products developed under our existing or future collaborations using our technologies, which could reduce the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive, if any. In many cases, we will not be directly involved in the development or commercialization of our product candidates and, accordingly, will depend entirely on our collaborators. Our collaboration partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates because they: • do not allocate the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited capital resources, or the belief that other product candidates or other internal programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment; • do not have sufficient resources necessary to fully support the product candidate through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization; • are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; • re-evaluate the importance and their support for developing our product candidate pipeline due to a change in management, business operations or financial strategy. In addition, a collaborator may decide to pursue the development of a competitive product candidate developed outside of our collaboration with them. Conflicts may also arise if there is a dispute about the progress of, or other activities related to, the clinical development or commercialization of a product candidate, the achievement and payment of a milestone amount, the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the collaborative arrangement, or other licensing agreement terms. If a collaboration partner fails to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates for any of these reasons, we may not be able to replace them with another partner willing to develop and commercialize our product candidates under similar terms, if at all. Similarly, we may disagree with a collaborator as to which party owns newly or jointly-developed intellectual property. Should an agreement be revised or terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the anticipated benefits of the collaboration, we may not be able to obtain certain development support or revenues that we anticipated receiving. We may also be unable to obtain, on terms acceptable to us, a license from such collaboration partner to any of its intellectual property that may be necessary or useful for us to continue to develop and commercialize the product candidate. We cannot assure you that any product candidates will emerge from our relationships with Pfizer or any other future collaboration agreements we may enter into for any of our product candidates. If we are unable to adequately protect or expand our intellectual property related to our current or future product candidates, our business prospects could be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain intellectual property rights; • protect our trade secrets; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights or patents. We will be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to ultimately enforce our patents or proprietary rights. Therefore, any issued patents that we own or otherwise have intellectual property rights to may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide us with the protection against competitors that we anticipate. 40 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary intellectual property rights is uncertain because issued patents and other legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Our future patent position will be influenced by the following factors: • we or our licensors may not have been the first to discover the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to engage in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; • our or our licensors’ pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our or our licensors’ issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; and • third parties may develop intellectual property around our or our licensors’ patent claims to design competitive intellectual property and ultimately product candidates that fall outside the scope of our or our licensors’ patents. Because of the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review and approval of a product candidate, it is possible that before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire, or such patent rights may remain in force for only a short period following approval and commercialization. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. Also, patent rights may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, we may not be able to prevent a third party from infringing our patents in a country that does not recognize or enforce patent rights, or that imposes compulsory licenses on or restricts the prices of life-saving drugs. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we or our licensors do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the products or technologies we own or have licensed, or otherwise be limited in scope. In addition, we may not have total control over the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license from others. Accordingly, we may be unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any pending or issued patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. We cannot assure you as to the degree of protection that will be afforded by any of our issued or pending patents, or those licensed by us. If a third party claims we are infringing on its intellectual property rights, we could incur significant expenses, or be prevented from further developing or commercializing our product candidates. Our success will also depend on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights of third parties. This is generally referred to as having the “freedom to operate”. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property claims, USPT interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, both in the U.S. and internationally, involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are lengthy, costly and time-consuming and their outcome is highly uncertain. We may become involved in protracted and expensive litigation in order to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others, or to determine whether we have the freedom to operate with respect to the intellectual property rights of others. Patent applications in the U.S. are, in most cases, maintained in secrecy until approximately 18 months after the patent application is filed. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to products similar to our product candidates may have already been filed by others 41 Table of Contents without our knowledge. In the event that a third party has also filed a patent application covering our product candidate or other claims, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference proceeding in the USPT office, or similar proceedings in other countries to determine the priority of invention. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal fees and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing the development and commercialization of a product candidate and may be subject to injunctions and/or damage awards. We are aware of other companies that have filed patent applications with respect to other nucleotide polymerase inhibitors to treat chronic hepatitis C in the U.S. and other countries. In the future, the USPT or a foreign patent office may grant patent rights to our product candidates or other claims to third parties. Subject to the issuance of these future patents, the claims of which will be unknown until issued, we may need to obtain a license or sublicense to these rights in order to have the appropriate freedom to further develop or commercialize them. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we need to obtain such licenses or sublicenses, but are unable to do so, we could encounter delays in the development of our product candidates, or be prevented from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates at all. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent and do not have the freedom to operate, we could be subject to injunctions, and/or compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. In cases where we have in-licensed intellectual property, our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such agreements could harm our business. It is becoming common for third parties to challenge patent claims on any successful product candidate or approved drug. If we or our collaborators become involved in any patent litigation, interference or other legal proceedings, we could incur substantial expense, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. A negative outcome of such litigation or proceedings may expose us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling our product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. We cannot be sure that any patents will be issued or that patents licensed to us will be issued from any of our patent applications or, should any patents issue, that we will be provided with adequate protection against potentially competitive products. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that patents issued or licensed to us will be of any commercial value, or that private parties or competitors will not successfully challenge these patents or circumvent our patent position in the U.S. or abroad. In the absence of adequate patent protection, our business may be adversely affected by competitors who develop comparable technology or products. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is obtainable, or prior to us filing patent applications on inventions we may make from time to time. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock We have experienced operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur such losses for the foreseeable future and we may never become profitable. Since inception (May 13, 1994) and through December 31, 2010, we have incurred a cumulative deficit of approximately $268 million. Our losses to date have resulted principally from: • costs related to supporting our research programs and the preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates; and • general and administrative costs relating to supporting our operations. We anticipate incurring losses from operations for the foreseeable future, as we plan to continue to conduct research, preclinical studies and conduct extensive and expensive clinical trials for our product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will ever generate direct or royalty revenue from the sale of products, or ever become profitable. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations, which will make it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. Until we, or a collaborator, have successfully developed one of our product candidates, we expect that substantially all of our revenue will result from payments we receive under collaborative arrangements or license agreements where we grant others the right to use our intellectual property or know-how. We may not be able to generate additional revenues under existing or future collaborative agreements. Furthermore, payments potentially due to us under our existing or any future collaborative arrangements, including any milestone and up-front payments, are intermittent in nature and are subject to significant fluctuation in both timing and amount, or may never be earned or paid. Further, our existing collaboration arrangement and most likely, any future collaborations allow our partner to terminate the agreement on relatively short notice. Our quarterly and annual operating costs and revenues may become highly volatile, and comparisons to previous periods may be difficult to make. Therefore, our historical and current revenues may not be indicative of our ability to achieve additional payment-generating milestones or events in the future. We expect that our operating results will also vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of the initiation, success or failure of preclinical studies or clinical trials, the timing of the formulation and manufacture of our product candidates, or other development related factors. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the revenues or results of operations for any other period. The reporting requirements of being a publicly-traded company increase our overall operating costs and subject us to increased regulatory risk. As a publicly-traded company in the U.S., we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditor will perform their own assessment on our internal control over financial reporting. This testing is expensive and requires the attention of our limited management resources. The various financial reporting, legal, corporate governance and other obligations associated with being a publicly-traded company require us to incur significant expenditures and place additional demands on our board of directors and executive officers, as well as other administrative, operational, and financial resources. If we are unable to comply with these requirements in a timely and effective manner, we and/or our executive officers may be subject to sanctions by the SEC, and our ability to raise additional funds in the future maybe impaired and ultimately affects our business. We will continue to incur additional expenses as a result of being a publicly-traded company. 43 Table of Contents In order to develop our product candidates and support our operations beyond 15 months from December 31, 2010 and continue as a going concern, we expect that we will need to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, which could materially harm our business and business prospects. We anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand as of December 31, 2010, together with proceeds we expect to receive from our existing license and collaboration agreement will enable us to operate for approximately 15 months. We have no other committed sources of additional capital at this time. This estimate assumes that we complete our ongoing Phase 1b multiple ascending dose trial of INX-189 in the first quarter of 2011. This estimate does not include the direct costs associated with continuing the clinical development of INX-189 beyond the ongoing Phase 1b clinical trial or FV-100 beyond the recently completed Phase 2 trial or the impact of any other significant transaction or change in strategy or development plans in the future. We currently do not have any commitments for future funding, nor do we anticipate that we will generate significant revenue from the sale of any products in the foreseeable future. Therefore, in order to meet our anticipated liquidity needs beyond 15 months to continue the development of our product candidates, or possibly sooner in the event we enter into other transactions or change our strategy or accelerate our development plans, we will need to secure additional capital. If we do not raise additional capital in the short term and continue with our development plans our liquidity guidance may be less than 15 months. We would expect to fund the Company primarily through the sale of additional common stock or other equity securities, as well as through proceeds from licensing agreements, strategic collaborations, forms of debt financing, or any other financing vehicle. Funds from these sources may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and our failure to raise such funds could have a material adverse impact on our future business strategy, plans, financial condition and results of operations. If adequate funds are not available to us on acceptable terms in the future, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, or delay or curtail our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If additional capital is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may need to obtain funds through license agreements, or collaborative or partner arrangements pursuant to which we will likely relinquish rights to certain product candidates that we might otherwise choose to develop or commercialize independently, or be forced to enter into such arrangements earlier than we would prefer, which would likely result in less favorable transaction terms. Additional equity financings may be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant payment obligations and restrictive covenants that restrict how we operate our business. The timing and extent of our future financing needs will depend on many factors, some of which are very difficult to predict and others that may be beyond our control, including: • our clinical development plans for INX-189, FV-100 and any of our product candidates, including any changes in our strategy; • the variability, timing and costs associated with conducting clinical trials, the rate of enrollment in such clinical trials and the results of these clinical trials: • the variability, timing and costs associated with conducting preclinical studies, and the results of these studies; • the cost of formulating and manufacturing preclinical and clinical trial materials to evaluate our product candidates; • whether we receive regulatory approval to advance the clinical development of our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all; • the cost and time to obtain regulatory approvals required to advance the development of our product candidates; • the scope and size of our research and development efforts; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish in the future; 44 Table of Contents • future payments we may receive or make under existing or future license or collaboration agreements, if any; • the cost to maintain a corporate infrastructure to support being a publicly-traded company; and • the cost of filing, prosecuting, and enforcing patent and other intellectual property claims. The price of our common stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment in us could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile since the completion of our initial public offering in June 2004. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including but not limited to: • our ability to successfully advance our product candidates through preclinical and clinical development; • disclosure of any favorable or unfavorable data from our preclinical studies or clinical trials, or other regulatory developments concerning our clinical trials, the formulation and manufacturing of our product candidates, or those of our competitors; • our ability to manage our cash burn rate at an acceptable or planned level; • the approval or commercialization of new products by us or our competitors, and the disclosure thereof; • announcements of scientific innovations by us or our competitors; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • public concern about the safety of our product candidates, or similar classes of compounds; • litigation to which we may become subject; • actual or anticipated variations in our annual and quarterly operating results; • changes in general conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in drug reimbursement rates or government policies related to such reimbursement; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • new regulatory legislation adopted in the U.S. or abroad; • changes in patent legislation in the U.S. or abroad • our failure to achieve or meet equity research analysts’ expectations or their estimates of our business or prospects, or a change in their recommendations concerning us, the value of our common stock or our industry in general; • termination or delay in any of our existing or future collaborative arrangements; • future sales of equity or debt securities, or the perception that such future sales may occur; • the sale of shares held by our directors or management; • the loss of our eligibility to have shares of our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market due to our failure to maintain minimum listing standards or other listed markets; • changes in accounting principles; • failure to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of publicly-owned companies under the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • general economic conditions and capital markets. 45 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and more specifically the NASDAQ Capital Market, upon which our common stock trades, and the market for smaller biotechnology stocks in particular have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for a particular biotechnology company’s stock has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that company. Market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Due to this volatility, investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the price they paid, which could generate losses. Future issuances of shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline, even if our business is doing well. The issuance of a significant number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales could occur, including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other insiders or their affiliates, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. If we raise additional capital in the future, your ownership in us could be diluted or require us to relinquish rights. Any issuance of equity we may undertake in the future to raise additional capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those newly issued shares being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a debt financing or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as a common stockholder, which could impair the value of our common stock. Any debt financing we enter into may include covenants that limit our flexibility in conducting our business. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others, which might require us to relinquish valuable rights to our intellectual property or product candidates that we would have otherwise retained. Insiders and affiliates continue to have substantial control over us, which could delay or prevent a change in control. As of December 31, 2010, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 25.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to delay or prevent a change in control that may be favored by other stockholders and otherwise exercise significant influence over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including: • the appointment of directors; • the appointment, change or termination of management; • any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; • the approval of acquisitions or mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; and • the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders. A significant number of shares of our common stock are subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants, which upon such exercise could result in dilution to our security holders. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 12,868,100 shares of our common stock. These warrants had a weighted average exercise price of $1.14. The exercise price and/or the number of shares issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations, including upon the occurrence of certain reclassifications or mergers or certain subdivisions or combinations of the common stock, and the issuance of certain stock 46 Table of Contents dividends. Although we cannot determine at this time which of these warrants may ultimately be exercised, it is reasonable to assume that a warrant may be exercised if the exercise price thereof is below the market price of our common stock at the time of exercise. To the extent any of our outstanding warrants are exercised in the future, additional shares of our common stock will be issued that will be eligible for resale in the public market, which could result in dilution to our security holders. The issuance of additional securities upon the exercise of warrants could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on appreciation in the price of our common stock for any return on their investment in us. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation in the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or our management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Delaware, the state in which we are incorporated, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in management that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions: • establish a classified, or staggered, Board of Directors so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our Board of Directors with the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to remove and elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 