Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this annual report constitute "forward-looking statements." These forward-looking statements involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may or may not be outside our control and that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Specifically, the actions of competitors, suppliers and customers are generally outside of our control; and our ability to execute our business plans and to increase revenues and operating income are each dependent upon our ability to continue to expand our current businesses and to enter new business areas, as well as upon general economic conditions and other factors, including some of the factors identified as "Risk Factors" in this annual report and from time to time in our other SEC filings. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continues," or the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We do not intend to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, unless required by law. Risks Relating to Our Business We have been experiencing net losses and expect that net losses may continue for the near future. If we continue to operate at a loss, our business may not be financially viable. We have experienced losses and negative cash flows for the years ended 2007 and 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had working capital of $25.6 million. Given the economic slowdown and contraction in the wider markets, including the Central and South American markets that we serve and generally globally, we cannot adequately evaluate the financial viability of our business and our long-term prospects. To achieve profitability we endeavor to, among other things: •Continue to increase gross profits while controlling operational expenses; •Continue to work with our OEM vendors for increased margin opportunities; and •Increase sales and consumer demand for our verykool® products. If we do not succeed in these objectives, our business might continue to experience losses and may not be sustainable in the future. 10 Table of Contents We may not succeed in our introduction and establishment of proprietary products in our markets. The introduction and establishment of new products such as our proprietary verykool® line in our markets may depress sales of existing products and may not be well received by our carrier customers and consumers. Further, failure to adequately carry out our product marketing, sales and delivery strategy or otherwise be successful in establishing our verykool® brand may result in significant inventory obsolescence, including inventory which we have built up. If any of these events occur, our financial condition and operating results would likely be negatively impacted. Our operating results may vary significantly, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Our operating results are influenced by a number of factors, which may cause our sales and operating results to fluctuate greatly. These factors include: •product availability and pricing; •the addition or loss of supplier or customer relationships; •the timing of introduction of new products by our suppliers and competitors; •purchasing patterns of customers in different markets; •general economic conditions; •promotions and subsidies; and •gross margins For example, the closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between $1.85 and $0.10 from January 1, 2008 through March 20, 2009. We have outstanding indebtedness, which is secured by substantially all our assets and which could prevent us from borrowing additional funds, if needed. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding debt in the amount of $14.3 million under a bank credit facility and as of February 28, 2009, such debt outstanding was $9.5 million. In April 2008, we entered into a Loan, Security and Bulk Purchase Agreement and a Letter of Credit and Security Agreement with Wells Fargo Century, Inc., which replaced our then existing asset-based, secured credit facility with Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N.A. Under the new two-year credit facility, Wells Fargo Century, Inc. may advance us up to $45,000,000 based on the expected collections of eligible receivables as well as the value of our eligible inventory as determined in accordance with the terms of the facility. This new facility expires April 2010. Any significant decrease in our level of eligible accounts receivable or inventory will reduce our ability to borrow additional funds under the new credit facility and may affect our ability to adequately finance our operations and expansion strategies. Further, if we violate our loan covenants, default on our obligations or become subject to a change of control, our indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. In addition, the terms of our new credit facility restrict us from incurring certain additional indebtedness, which could limit our ability to expand our operations. Some of our loan covenants subject us to, among other things, limits on our ability to sell certain assets and make certain payments, including, but not limited to, dividends, repurchases of common stock and other payments outside the normal course of business, as well as prohibits us from merging or consolidating with another corporation or selling all or substantially all of our assets. As of December 31, 2008 and February 28, 2009, the Company was in compliance with the covenants of the new credit facility. If any of these adverse events occur or we are unable to renew our new credit facility or enter into an adequate credit relationship as needed, our business' financial condition or operating results could be negatively affected. 11 Table of Contents We buy a significant amount of our products from a limited number of suppliers, who may not provide us with competitive products at reasonable prices when we need them in the future. We purchase wireless handsets and accessories principally from wireless communications OEMs and distributors. We depend on these suppliers to provide us with adequate inventories of currently popular brand name products on a timely basis and on favorable pricing and other terms. In 2008, two vendors accounted for 76% and 15%, respectively, of our total cost of sales. We currently have one exclusive and several non-exclusive agreements with our principal suppliers, which can be terminated on short notice and provide for certain territorial restrictions. Our suppliers may not offer us competitive products on favorable terms or timely delivery. In addition, new products from other manufacturers could impact the demand for products from manufacturers we represent. From time to time, we have been unable to obtain sufficient product supplies. Any failure or delay by our suppliers, particularly our two primary vendors, in supplying us with products on favorable terms may severely diminish our ability to obtain and deliver products to our customers on a timely and competitive basis. If we lose either of our principal suppliers, or if these suppliers are unable to fulfill our product needs, or if any principal supplier imposes substantial price increases or unfavorable terms and alternative sources of supply are not readily available, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The loss or reduction in orders from principal customers or a reduction in prices we are able to charge these customers will have a negative impact upon our revenues and could cause our stock price to decline. Our three largest customers represented 21%, 21% and 20% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. All three of these customers are carriers in Central and South America. The markets we serve are subject to significant price competition. Additionally, our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase products from us. For these and other reasons, such as competitive pricing and competitive pressures, customers may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than we have been able to obtain from these customers in the past. This could occur, for example, in the case of a customer purchasing large quantities of a product from us, who then terminates this relationship because the customer can obtain a lower price by buying directly from the manufacturer. The loss of any of our principal customers, a reduction in the amount of product or services our principal customers order from us or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have experienced losses of certain customer bases through industry consolidation and in the ordinary course of business. Recent losses include our U.S. customer base where we decided to discontinue operations, thereby restricting potential customer geography. Overall, there can be no assurance that any of our customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods, with any such customer decisions having the potential to adversely affect our business operations and profitability. Our ability to attain future profitability depends on our ability to increase existing margins, through increased net sales, which we may not be able to do. The gross margins that we realize on sales of wireless handsets could be reduced due to, among other things, increased competition or a growing industry emphasis on cost containment. Therefore, our future profitability will continue to depend on our ability to increase our margins or to increase our sales to help offset potential future declines in margins. We may not be able to increase existing margins for products or services we offer or increase our sales. Our ability to generate sales is based upon demand for wireless handset products that we have or can deliver and our having an adequate supply of these products. Even if our sales rates increase, the gross margins that we receive from our sales may not be sufficient to make our future operations profitable. For example, in 2008, we experienced a net loss due to, among other things, lower gross margins, product mix, decreased average sales price per unit, and sales of certain products below our cost due to the consolidation of some regional carriers. 12 Table of Contents Our business depends on the continued tendency of wireless handset manufacturers and carriers to outsource aspects of their business to us. Our business depends in large part on wireless handset manufacturers and carriers outsourcing some of their business functions to us. We provide functions such as product approval and testing, inventory management, product fulfillment, preparation of product kits, and customized packaging, light assembly and end-user support services. Certain wireless handset manufacturers and carriers have elected, and others may elect, to undertake these services internally. Additionally, our customer service levels, industry consolidation, competition, deregulation, technological changes or other factors could reduce the degree to which members of the wireless handset industry rely on outsourced services such as the services we provide. Any significant change in the market for these services could have a material adverse effect on our current and planned business. We may not be able to effectively compete in our industry if consolidation of carriers continues or a change in product delivery routing occurs. The past several years have witnessed a consolidation within the wireless carrier community. For example, in 2007, the consolidation in the United States of regional carriers such as Dobson Cellular Systems Inc. and Suncom Wireless resulted in our loss of existing and potential customers. If this trend continues, it could result in a reduction or elimination of promotional activities by the remaining wireless carriers as they seek to reduce their expenditures which could, in turn, result in decreased demand for our products or services. Moreover, consolidation of wireless carriers reduces the number of potential contracts available to us and was one of the determining factors which led to the discontinuation of our U.S. sales business. Wireless carriers may also change their policies regarding sales to their agents by independent distributors, such as requiring those agents to purchase products from the carrier or manufacturer, rather than from distributors such as us. This type of requirement could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have and could lose customers or orders as well as potential customers as a result of consolidation in the wireless telecommunications carrier industry. There has been significant consolidation in the wireless industry, which has caused extreme price competition and reduced our number of customers and potential customers. Future consolidations could erode our current and potential markets. This could lead to, among other things, reduced sales volume and margins and greater fluctuations in our quarterly results as well as carrying value of our inventory. These consolidated entities may also order fewer products from us or elect to no longer do business with us or demand pricing changes in order to compete. Lawsuits may be instituted against us from time to time. We have in the past been and are currently, and from time to time in the future may become, subject to claims and litigation, which could be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to our normal business operations. In addition, the outcome of any claims or litigation, including possibly substantial awards and penalties, are difficult to predict and could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. For further information regarding certain claims and litigation in which we have in the past been and are currently involved and which could adversely affect us, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." We face many risks relating to intellectual property rights. Our business will be harmed if: (i) we and/or our manufacturers are found to have infringed intellectual property rights of third parties, or (ii) our intellectual property protection is inadequate to protect proprietary rights used in our verykool® product line. Because our proprietary verykool® products are comprised of complex technology, we may be subject to or impacted by litigation regarding intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert 13 Table of Contents intellectual property infringement claims against us and against our manufacturers. Defending claims may be expensive and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Increasingly, third parties have sought broad injunctive relief in our industry, which could ultimately limit our ability to sell our proprietary verykool® products. If any litigation arises and we do not succeed in such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or to obtain licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of such litigation. However, we cannot be certain that any such licenses, if available at all, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. In some cases, we might be forced to stop delivering certain or all of our proprietary verykool® products if we or our manufacturers are subject to a final injunction or other restrictions. We attempt to negotiate favorable intellectual property indemnities with our manufacturers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations or that a manufacturer's indemnity will cover all damages and losses suffered by us due to a potentially infringing verykool® product or that a manufacturer may choose to accept a license or modify or replace its products with non-infringing products which would otherwise mitigate such damages and losses. Further, we may not be able to participate in intellectual property litigation involving a manufacturer and may not be able to influence any ultimate resolution or outcome that may adversely impact our sales if a court enters an injunction or other restrictions that negatively impacts our proprietary verykool® products. Further, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use our or our manufacturers' proprietary information or develop similar technology relating to our verykool® products independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited, including in certain foreign countries. Unauthorized use of our or our manufacturers' intellectual property rights by third parties and the cost of any litigation necessary to enforce our or our manufacturers' intellectual property rights could have an adverse impact on our business. Our sales and inventory risk may be materially affected by fluctuations in regional demand patterns and economic factors for which we cannot plan. The demand for our products and services has fluctuated and may continue to vary substantially within the regions served by us. We believe the roll-out of third generation, or 3G, cellular telephone systems and other new technologies have had and will continue to have an effect on overall subscriber growth and wireless handset replacement demand. The worldwide economic slow-down has impacted the regions served by us, changes in promotional programs offered by wireless carriers or customer preferences, may lower consumer demand for our products and create higher levels of inventories which could decrease our gross and operating margins. We could face a substantial inventory risk due to depreciation and equipment price erosion if our products are not sold in a timely manner. During 2008, we experienced such an adverse impact on, including decreased margin potential, and some products were sold at a considerable loss. All of our revenues from continuing operations during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 were generated outside of the United States in countries that may have volatile currencies or other risks. All of our sales activities are in territories and countries outside of the United States, particularly Central and South American countries, most significantly Argentina. The fact that we distribute our products outside the United States exposes us to, among other things, increased credit risks, currency fluctuations, customs duties, import quotas and other trade restrictions, potentially greater and more unpredictable inflationary and currency pressures, and shipping delays. Changes may occur in social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment in the territories and countries where we currently distribute products. United States laws and regulations relating to investment and trade in foreign countries could also change to our detriment. Any of these factors could have material adverse effects on our business and operations. 14 Table of Contents Also, although we purchase and sell products and services in U.S. dollars and do not engage in exchange swaps, futures or options contracts or other hedging techniques, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce demand for products sold in United States dollars. We cannot predict the effect that future exchange rate fluctuations will have on our operating results or financial position. We may in the future engage in currency hedging transactions, which could result in our incurring significant additional financial risks, including expenses and losses. We may not be able to adequately respond to rapid technological changes in the wireless handset industry, which could cause us to lose customers. The technology relating to wireless handsets changes rapidly resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. We are required to anticipate future technological changes in our industry and to continually identify, obtain and market new products in order to satisfy evolving industry and customer requirements. While our top vendors have historically kept their products competitive and we aim to keep our proprietary products competitive in terms of technological changes, there is no guarantee they or we will continue to do so, which could materially affect our business. Competitors or manufacturers of wireless handsets may market products which have perceived or actual advantages over products that we handle or which otherwise render those products obsolete or less marketable. We have made and continue to make significant capital investments in accordance with evolving industry and customer requirements including maintaining levels of inventories of currently popular products that we believe are necessary based on current market conditions. This utilization of capital for product development and inventory buildup of this nature increases our risk of loss due to possible product obsolescence. Furthermore, if we do not adequately anticipate future technological changes, we may not have established adequate relationships with suppliers or performed appropriate product development. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivables could have a significant negative impact on our cash flow and financial condition. We currently offer and intend to offer open account terms to certain of our customers, both large and small, which may subject us to credit risks, particularly to the extent that our receivables represent sales to a limited number of customers or are concentrated in particular geographic markets. Although we have an accounts receivable insurance policy, this policy carries a substantial deductible and may not cover our liability in all instances. We also have an accounts receivable-based credit facility in order to reduce our working capital requirements. The extent of our ability to use our accounts receivable-based credit facility is dependent on the amount of and collection cycle of our accounts receivable. Adverse changes in our ability to use accounts receivable financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. We rely on our suppliers to provide favorable terms, including payment terms, in order for us to make appropriate product purchases, and without such terms, our ability to procure products could be impacted. Much of our business is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate supplies of currently popular products on favorable pricing and other terms. Our ability to fund our product purchases is dependent on our principal suppliers providing favorable payment terms that allow us to maximize the efficiency of our capital usage. The payment terms we receive from our suppliers are dependent on several factors, including, but not limited to, our payment history with the supplier, the suppliers' credit granting policies, contractual provisions, our overall credit rating as determined by various credit rating agencies, industry conditions, our recent operating results, financial position and cash flows, and each supplier's ability to obtain credit insurance on amounts that we owe them. Adverse changes in any of these factors, certain of which may not be wholly in our control, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. 15 Table of Contents We rely on our information technology systems to function efficiently, without interruptions, and if it does not, customer relationships could be harmed. We have focused on the application of our information technology systems to provide customized services to wireless handset manufacturers and carriers. Our ability to meet our customers' technical and performance requirements is highly dependent on the effective functioning of our information technology systems, which may experience interruptions, including aspects provided by third-party providers which may be beyond our control. These business interruptions could cause us to fall below acceptable performance levels pursuant to our customers' requirements and could result in a negative impact on, including the loss of, the related business relationship. Some of our information technology systems are managed and operated by third party providers. All information technology systems, both internal and external, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures, as well as third-party provider failures. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a systems failure or security breach or other problem with our information technology systems could negatively impact our operations and financial results. We depend on third parties to manufacture the products we distribute, including our proprietary verykool® products, and, accordingly, we rely on their quality control procedures. Product manufacturers typically provide limited or no warranties on the products directly to us or directly to the end consumer. We generally pass through any warranties received from our manufacturers to our customers and in absence of such warranty we are solely responsible for the products. If a product we distribute from a manufacturer has quality or performance problems, our ability to provide satisfactory products to our customers could be disrupted and our reputation could be impaired. In addition, as the verykool® products are manufactured exclusively for us, we carry the financial risk of the inventory, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell these products before payment is due and at prices above our cost. Either of these risks could have a negative impact on our business and operations. The wireless handset industry is intensely competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete against well established competitors with greater financial and other resources. We compete for sales of wireless handsets and accessories, and expect that we will continue to compete, with numerous well-established carriers, distributors and manufacturers, including our own suppliers. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do and may market similar products or services directly to our customers. Distribution of wireless handsets and accessories has generally had low barriers to entry. As a result, additional competitors may choose to enter our industry in the future. The markets for wireless handsets and accessories are characterized by intense price competition and significant price erosion over the life of a product. Many of our competitors have the financial resources to withstand substantial price competition and to implement extensive advertising and promotional programs, both generally and in response to efforts by additional competitors to enter into new markets or introduce new products. Our ability to continue to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to maintain our current industry relationships, both manufacturers and carrier customers. We may not be successful in anticipating and responding to competitive factors affecting our industry, including new or changing outsourcing requirements, the entry of additional well-capitalized competitors, new products which may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, international, national, regional and local economic conditions and competitors' discount pricing and promotion strategies. As wireless telecommunications markets mature and as we seek to enter into new markets in the Central and South American region and offer new products in the future, the competition that we face may change and grow more intense. 16 Table of Contents We rely on trade secret laws and agreements with our key employees and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights, and there is no assurance that these laws or agreements adequately protect our rights. We rely on trade secret laws to protect our proprietary knowledge, particularly our database of customers and suppliers and business terms such as pricing, and the information related to our verykool® brand. In general, we also have non-disclosure agreements with our key employees and limit access to and distribution of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These measures may prove difficult to enforce and may not prove adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may become subject to law suits alleging medical risks associated with our wireless handsets, and the cost of these suits could be substantial, and divert funds from our business. Lawsuits or claims have been filed or made against manufacturers of wireless handsets alleging possible medical risks, including brain cancer, associated with the electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets. There has been only limited relevant research in this area, and this research has not been conclusive as to what effects, if any, exposure to electromagnetic fields emitted by wireless handsets has on human cells. Substantially all of our revenues are derived, either directly or indirectly, from sales of wireless handsets. We may become subject to lawsuits filed by plaintiffs alleging various health risks from our products. If any future studies find possible health risks associated with the use of wireless handsets or if any damages claim against us or a business partner is successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even an unsubstantiated perception that health risks exist could adversely affect our ability or the ability of our customers to market wireless handsets. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our common stock and our stock price could be volatile and could decline, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares and could depress the market price of their shares. The stock market in general and the market for telecommunications-related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. For example, the closing price of our common stock has fluctuated between $1.85 and $0.10 from January 1, 2008 through March 20, 2009. As a result, the market price of our common stock has been and is likely to remain volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. If the trading price of our common stock remains below $1.00 for an extended period of time, our common stock may, among other things, be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market or Nasdaq markets altogether adversely affecting the value of our common stock. Between January 1, 2008 and March 20, 2009, our common stock share price fluctuated between $1.85 and $0.10 per share, and on March 20, 2009 closed at $0.18 per share. Under Nasdaq Market Rules, among other things, if our share price is under $1.00 per share for an extended period of time, our stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market, be transferred to a listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, or be delisted from the Nasdaq markets altogether. On July 10, 2008, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency letter indicating that for the last thirty consecutive business days the bid price for our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Stock Market under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until January 6, 2009, to regain compliance. The Nasdaq Stock Market has extended the compliance date several times with the current compliance date being on or about October 12, 2009. 17 Table of Contents During the compliance period on or about October 12, 2009, absent any unexpected events, our common stock is expected to continue to trade on The Nasdaq Global Market. If compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) cannot be demonstrated on or about October 12, 2009, the staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market Listing Qualifications department is expected to deliver a written notification to us that our securities will be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. If we receive a delisting notice, we may appeal the Nasdaq staff's determination to a Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer our securities to The Nasdaq Capital Market or another exchange or trading market. We intend to monitor the bid price of our common stock and consider available options if our common stock does not trade at a level likely to result in our regaining compliance with Nasdaq's minimum bid price rule. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq markets altogether, we may seek quotation on a regional stock exchange or other exchange or market, if available. Such listing could reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another exchange or market, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock, which would likely cause a decrease in the value of our common stock. Further, if our common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq markets, and our trading price remained below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a "penny stock." In addition, many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Further, various regulations and policies may restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or "margin" low-priced stocks, and declines in our stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers' commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher-priced stocks, the price of our common stock could result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock. All of these risks could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock, thereby negatively impacting share price. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies or effect a change in control of our company is limited, which may not be in our stockholders' best interests. Some provisions of our charter and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of Maryland, under which we are incorporated, may delay or prevent a change in control of our company or other transactions that could provide our common stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock or that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include the ability of our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions can occur. These provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us even if the acquisition would be advantageous to our stockholders. 18 Table of Contents Stockholders have been and may be diluted as a result of past or future offerings or other financings or equity grants. We have and may in the future raise additional capital through one or more public offerings, private placements or other financings involving our securities and have made or may make stock option and other equity incentive grants. As a result of these financings or grants, ownership interests in us may be diluted, potentially substantially. Our largest stockholder may have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders, and can significantly influence important corporate matters. As of March 20, 2009, Joseph Ram, our Chief Executive Officer beneficially owned approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Ram may be able to significantly influence corporate actions relating to: •controlling the composition of our board of directors; •controlling our management and policies; •determining the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may not be beneficial to other stockholders; and •acting in his own interest, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 