Risk Factors Hospira’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties may cause (1) Hospira’s sales and results of operations to fluctuate significantly; (2) Hospira’s past performance to not be indicative of future performance; and (3) Hospira’s actual performance to differ materially from Hospira’s expectations or projections. The risks described below apply to Hospira’s business after giving effect to the Mayne Pharma acquisition and may not be the only risks Hospira faces. Additional risks that Hospira does not yet know of or that Hospira currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. Risks Relating to the Mayne Pharma Acquisition and Related Transactions The integration of Mayne Pharma into Hospira’s operations will present significant challenges. On February 2, 2007, Hospira completed its acquisition of Mayne Pharma Limited. Hospira will face significant challenges in combining its operations and product lines with Mayne Pharma in a timely and efficient manner. The Mayne Pharma acquisition was the largest in Hospira’s history, and successful integration will be important to Hospira’s future success. In connection with the integration, Hospira will identify and eliminate duplicative functions, retain other key functions and personnel, terminate various contractual arrangements and transition its management structure to the new combined company. This integration will be complex and time-consuming, may divert management away from day-to-day operations and may disrupt ordinary operations. If Hospira does not identify the right functions to be eliminated or retained, it may not realize the expected cost savings and synergies from the acquisition. Hospira may not be able to retain key personnel to efficiently operate the business. Integration of Mayne Pharma will also require Hospira to modify its operational and financial systems and cause Mayne Pharma’s internal control over financial reporting to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The integration will result in significant additional expenses, currently estimated to be approximately $95 million to $110 million over the two year period following the acquisition. The substantial majority of such expenses will be incurred in cash. Hospira may incur greater-than-expected costs in connection with the integration if it experiences difficulties or encounters issues not currently known to it. As Hospira and Mayne Pharma offer some similar products in the same markets, Hospira may not be able to retain all historical sales of those products. The failure to successfully integrate Mayne Pharma’s business into Hospira’s business and manage the challenges presented by the integration process may prevent Hospira from achieving the anticipated potential benefits of the acquisition, may lead to significant costs and may harm Hospira’s future profitability. 16 Hospira has incurred significant indebtedness in order to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, which may limit its operating flexibility. To finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira has incurred additional borrowings of approximately $1.9 billion in the aggregate under a one-year bridge loan facility and a three-year term loan facility. As a result, as of February 1, 2007, Hospira had approximately $2.6 billion of debt. This significant indebtedness will require Hospira to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies and for general corporate purposes. During 2006, Hospira incurred approximately $31.0 million in interest expense. In 2007, interest expense is expected to increase to approximately $130 million to $140 million, assuming Hospira maintains its existing credit ratings and is able to refinance amounts due under the bridge loan facility in market conditions similar to current market conditions. Hospira will also be required to make minimum principal payments under the term loan facility of $50 million in 2007, $200 million in 2008 and $250 million in 2009. These amounts will be reduced if Hospira prepays the principal in earlier periods. In addition, this significant indebtedness will: · increase Hospira’s vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates; and · limit Hospira’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. The terms of the loan agreements contain restrictions on Hospira’s ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · create or incur liens; · sell all or substantially all of its assets; and · consolidate or merge with another entity. Hospira must also maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and is subject to a maximum leverage ratio throughout the life of the loan facilities. If Hospira does not comply with the covenants and restrictions under the agreements governing its indebtedness, Hospira would be in default under the agreements and, if the lenders do not waive such default, the lenders may accelerate the amounts borrowed. If the loans are accelerated, Hospira may be unable to repay the amounts due to the lenders or obtain additional or replacement financing on favorable terms or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s financial condition. Hospira’s credit rating has been downgraded by Standard and Poor’s and future downgrades are possible. A further downgrade will increase Hospira’s cost of borrowing. As a result of the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira’s credit rating was downgraded from BBB+ to BBB by Standard & Poor’s. While Moody’s maintained Hospira’s credit rating at Baa3, which is the lowest investment grade rating, the rating outlook was changed from stable to negative. It is possible that Hospira’s credit ratings could be further downgraded and fall below investment grade from both agencies. The credit ratings assigned to Hospira’s indebtedness affect its ability to obtain new financing and the cost of financing and credit. The amount of interest payable under Hospira’s loan facilities depends on Hospira’s credit ratings. If Hospira’s credit ratings were to be further downgraded, its borrowing costs would increase, and its access to unsecured debt markets could be limited. 17 Ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Hospira may not be able to refinance amounts borrowed under its bridge loan facility on favorable terms or at all. Hospira owes approximately $1.425 billion under the bridge loan facility entered into to finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition. The bridge loan facility matures in January 2008. Hospira intends to refinance the bridge loan facility before it matures through the sale of long-term bonds. Hospira’s ability to refinance the bridge loan facility in a timely manner and at favorable terms depends on several factors, including Hospira’s credit ratings, general economic conditions, capital markets and interest rate levels. Hospira may not be able to refinance the bridge loan facility. If Hospira is able to refinance the bridge loan facility, the terms of the refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the bridge loan facility. If Hospira does not maintain investment grade credit ratings, it may be more difficult to refinance the bridge loan facility, the cost of borrowing would increase substantially and Hospira would become subject to more stringent covenants and restrictions on its business. If Hospira fails to refinance the credit facility on favorable terms or at all, such failure could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. Hospira will incur substantial charges relating to the Mayne Pharma acquisition. In addition to integration-related expenses, Hospira will also incur other charges in connection with the Mayne Pharma acquisition. These will include purchase accounting charges, such as the write-off of in-process research and development and the write-up of inventory, as well as the amortization of intangible assets. These charges will negatively affect Hospira’s results of operations. Risks Related to Hospira’s Business and Industries Hospira faces significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies ranging from small start-up enterprises to multinational companies that are larger than Hospira and have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than Hospira. Hospira’s present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by competitors or by the introduction of competing products by one or more of its competitors. Hospira faces strong competition from one or more large competitors in each of its major product lines. To remain competitive and bolster its competitive position, Hospira believes that it must successfully execute various strategic plans, including expanding its research and development initiatives, increasing its international presence and lowering its operating costs. These initiatives may result in significant expenditures and ultimately may not be successful. Many of Hospira’s products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights and are therefore not entitled to market exclusivity. In the absence of patent protection, the introduction of competing products is limited primarily by market considerations and the need to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, which may not keep competitors from providing competitive products. Hospira’s failure to compete effectively could cause it to lose market share to its competitors and/or have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. 18 If Hospira does not introduce new products in a timely manner, its products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy its products, and its sales and profitability may decline. Demand for Hospira’s products may change in ways Hospira may not anticipate because of evolving customer needs, the introduction by others of new products and technologies, and evolving industry standards. A key component to Hospira’s strategy is effective execution of its research and development activities, in part to increase the breadth of Hospira’s specialty injectable product portfolio and to develop new and improved medication delivery systems products. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Hospira’s products may become obsolete over time, in which case its sales and operating results would suffer. If Hospira does not continue to develop generic injectable pharmaceuticals in a timely manner, its competitors may develop generic injectable pharmaceutical product portfolios that are more competitive than Hospira’s, and Hospira could find it more difficult to renew or expand GPO pricing agreements or to obtain new agreements. The ability to launch a generic pharmaceutical product at or before generic market formation is important to that product’s profitability. Prices for generic products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following market formation, as additional companies receive approvals to market that product and competition intensifies. If a company can be “first to market,” such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. With increasing competition in the generic product market, the timeliness with which Hospira can market new generic products will increase in importance. If Hospira is unable to bring its generic products to market on a timely basis, and secure “first to market” positions, its sales and profitability could be harmed. Hospira faces similar risks if it does not introduce new versions or upgrades to its medication management systems. Innovations generally require a substantial investment in product development before Hospira can determine their commercial viability, and Hospira may not have the financial resources necessary to fund these innovations. Even if Hospira succeeds in creating new product candidates from these innovations, such innovations may still fail to result in commercially successful products. It may take more time and effort for Hospira to sell and implement newer-technology medication management systems to its customers. The success of Hospira’s new product offerings and enhancements will depend on several factors, including Hospira’s ability to: · properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, including increasing demand for lower-cost products that help improve safety and productivity; · innovate, develop, manufacture and implement new products and technologies in an economical and timely manner; · differentiate its offerings from competitors’ offerings; · achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; · meet safety and efficacy requirements and other regulatory requirements of government agencies; · avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties; and · obtain favorable pricing on such products. Even if Hospira is able to successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations of its existing products, these new products or enhancements or new generations of its existing products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, 19 among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance and uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Failure to effectively manage efforts under product collaboration agreements may harm Hospira’s business and profitability. In many cases, Hospira collaborates with other companies for the development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of new products. For example, during 2006, Hospira entered into collaboration agreements relating to the long-term development and commercialization of biosimilar products, which Hospira views as an important long-term opportunity for its specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. Hospira’s ability to benefit from these arrangements will depend on its ability to successfully manage these arrangements and the performance of the other parties to these arrangements. Hospira and the other parties to these arrangements may not efficiently work together, leading to higher-than-anticipated costs and/or delays in important activities under the arrangements. The other parties to these arrangements may not devote the resources that Hospira requires for the arrangement to be successful. These arrangements are often governed by complex agreements that may be subject to differing interpretations by the parties, which may result in disputes. These factors are often beyond the control of Hospira, and could harm Hospira’s sales, product development efforts and profitability. Hospira is subject to the cost-containment efforts of hospital buying groups, wholesalers, distributors, third-party payors and government organizations. Many existing and potential customers for Hospira’s products have combined to form GPOs, and integrated delivery networks (“IDNs”) in an effort to lower costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s or an IDN’s affiliated hospitals and other members. Failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements could cause Hospira to lose market share to its competitors and/or have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. Hospira also relies significantly on drug wholesalers to assist in the distribution of its generic injectable pharmaceutical products. In general, drug wholesalers have been attempting to implement, and unilaterally enforce, a fee-for-service model for the distribution of such products. One drug wholesaler continues to unilaterally invoice Hospira for higher fees that it alleges are due for the distribution of Hospira’s generic injectable pharmaceutical products, which Hospira denies are payable. While Hospira has contracts in place with its major drug wholesalers, if Hospira is required to pay fees not contemplated by its existing agreements, Hospira will incur additional costs to distribute its products, which may harm Hospira’s profitability. Hospira’s products and services are sold to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long-term care facilities, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as government programs, private insurance plans and managed-care programs. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement, if any, may be decreased in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of Hospira’s products, which could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. In markets outside the United States, Hospira’s business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing as a result of the concentrated buying power of governments as principal customers and the use of bid-and-tender sales methods whereby Hospira is required to submit a bid for the sale of its 20 products. Hospira’s failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability in these markets. If Hospira is unable to maintain its GPO pricing agreements, sales of its products could decline. A small number of GPOs influence a majority of sales to Hospira’s hospital customers. GPOs negotiate pricing agreements with providers of medical products, and these negotiated prices are made available to members of GPOs. If Hospira does not have a pricing agreement with a GPO, it may be more difficult for Hospira to sell its products to the GPO’s members. Hospira has pricing agreements covering certain products with the major GPOs in the United States, including AmeriNet, Inc.; Broadlane Healthcare Corporation; Consorta, Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group; MedAssets Inc.; Novation, LLC; PACT, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. It will be important for Hospira to continue to maintain pricing arrangements with major GPOs. In order to maintain these relationships, Hospira must offer a reliable supply of high-quality, regulatory-compliant products. Hospira also needs to maintain a broad product line and be price-competitive. Several GPO contracts are up for renewal or extension each year. If Hospira is unable to renew or extend one or more of those contracts, and cannot replace lost business, Hospira’s sales and profitability will decline. There has been consolidation among major GPOs, and further consolidation may occur. The effect of consolidation is uncertain, and consolidation may impair Hospira’s ability to contract with GPOs in the future. The GPOs also have a variety of business relationships with Hospira’s competitors and may decide to enter into pricing agreements for, or otherwise prefer, products other than Hospira’s. While GPOs negotiate incentives for members to purchase specified products from a given manufacturer or distributor, GPO pricing agreements allow customers to choose between the products covered by the arrangement and another manufacturer’s products, whether or not purchased under a negotiated pricing agreement. As a result, Hospira may face competition for its products even within the context of its GPO pricing agreements. Although some of Hospira’s GPO pricing agreements may not be terminated without breach until the end of their contracted term, others may be terminated on 60 or 90 days’ notice. If Hospira is unable to establish or maintain arrangements with key GPOs and customers, or if GPO members alter their preference for Hospira’s products in favor of those of Hospira’s competitors, Hospira’s sales and profitability could decline. Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Hospira’s products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain governmental authorities outside the United States, can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA recently has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may delay approvals of new generic drug products. FDA officials are considering plans to propose user fees in connection with applications by generic drug producers like Hospira for approval of new generic drug products. If enacted, user fees would increase Hospira’s product development costs. Existing regulations may also delay or prevent generic drug producers such as Hospira from offering certain products, such as biosimilar products, in key territories, which could harm Hospira’s ability to grow its business. If a clear regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilar products is not fully developed in the United States and other jurisdictions, Hospira may not be able to generate future sales of such 21 products in those jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of its investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for product candidates could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. Hospira may not be able to remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements once it has obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts, some of which are related to manufacturing quality concerns. Hospira may be required by regulatory authorities, or determine on its own, to temporarily cease production and sale of certain products to resolve manufacturing and product quality concerns, which would harm Hospira’s sales, margins and profitability in the affected period(s) and may have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s business. Many of Hospira’s facilities and procedures and those of its suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. For example, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. Hospira must incur expense and spend time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. In the past, Hospira’s business has received notices alleging violations of these regulations, and Hospira has modified its practices in response to these notices. Hospira’s manufacturing facilities and those of its suppliers could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions in the future. These possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of its products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Hospira’s business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of its products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of its facilities while Hospira remedies the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any adverse regulatory action, or action taken by Hospira to maintain appropriate regulatory compliance, could disrupt Hospira’s business and have a material adverse effect on its sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, adverse regulatory action with respect to any Hospira product, operating procedure or manufacturing facility could materially harm Hospira’s reputation in the marketplace. The manufacture of Hospira’s products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospira’s business could suffer. The manufacture of Hospira’s products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, storage or distribution of Hospira’s products for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of its products could materially disrupt Hospira’s business and harm its sales and profitability. 22 Hospira is experiencing higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising oil and gas prices. Hospira uses resins and other petroleum-based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil and gas also affect significantly Hospira’s costs for freight and utilities. Oil and gas prices are volatile and fluctuated significantly in 2005 and 2006, and resulted in higher costs to Hospira to produce and distribute its products during certain periods. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability. Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials and other components and may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospira’s ability to manufacture products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability. The manufacture of Hospira’s products requires raw materials and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. Some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, the LifeShield® CLAVE® and MicroCLAVE® connector products, which are components of administration sets that represented approximately 14% of Hospira’s 2006 sales, rely on proprietary components that are available exclusively from ICU Medical. CLAVE® and MicroCLAVE® are registered trademarks of ICU Medical. In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding material, polyvinyl-chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospira’s production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its intravenous and pre-mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses with some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time-consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are necessary. In the past, Hospira’s business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum-based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospira’s products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Hospira’s cost-reduction activities have resulted in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospira’s business and may not result in the intended cost savings. Hospira’s strategy, in part, relies on the establishment of a low-cost operating infrastructure. In order to realize potential savings on future manufacturing and other operating costs, since 2005, Hospira has taken various actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing facilities. These actions included the sale of its Salt Lake City manufacturing facility to ICU Medical and an agreement to purchase critical care products produced there from ICU Medical; the closure of its Donegal, Ireland facility; the planned closures of its Ashland, Ohio and Montreal, Canada manufacturing facilities; and the planned accelerated production phase-out at its North Chicago, Illinois manufacturing facility, which is leased from Abbott. These actions have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, significant charges to Hospira’s income and cash expenditures. Future cost reduction activities, if taken, may result in additional charges and cash expenditures, which may be material. Hospira expects to relocate some of the production at the affected facilities to other Hospira facilities. Relocation of production to other facilities is a complex process requiring, among other things, re-registration of products and modification of the other facilities to accommodate the production. If Hospira does not successfully manage such relocation, its manufacturing operations and business could be 23 disrupted and it may incur more costs than anticipated in connection with these activities. Manufacturing at other Hospira facilities, or outsourcing manufacturing to third parties, may not result in the cost savings that Hospira expects. If Hospira does not realize expected savings from its cost-reduction efforts, its profitability may be harmed. Hospira’s manufacturing capacity could limit its ability to expand its business without significant capital investment. Although Hospira believes that it has adequate manufacturing capacity for its primary products, it may need to invest substantial capital resources to expand its manufacturing capacity if demand for its products increases significantly or if it is successful in obtaining significant additional customers for its injectable pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing services business. Hospira may not be able to complete any such expansion projects in a timely manner or on a cost-effective basis, and may not realize the desired benefits of any such expansion. As a result of cost-reduction efforts, Hospira has announced the planned closing of, or has sold, certain of its facilities. While Hospira believes it will have available manufacturing capacity to absorb, or the ability to outsource, the production at these facilities, there may be less available capacity at Hospira’s facilities. If Hospira experiences an interruption in manufacturing at any of its primary manufacturing facilities, it may not be able to produce sufficient products for its customers. As a result, Hospira’s sales, margins and profitability may be materially harmed. Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospira’s business and performance. Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction and other such events, which are beyond Hospira’s control. Systems interruptions could reduce Hospira’s ability to manufacture its products, and could have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s operations and financial performance. Integration of Hospira’s systems with Mayne Pharma’s systems may increase the chance of systems interruptions. The level of Hospira’s protection and disaster-recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospira may continue to acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, or form alliances, which may not be successful. As part of Hospira’s business strategy, it may continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements. Hospira also may pursue strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence. Hospira may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement or strategic alliance. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial and sales and marketing resources, may compete with Hospira for these strategic opportunities. Further, if Hospira is successful in securing such opportunities, the products and technologies that Hospira acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. In addition, Hospira may enter markets in which it has no or limited prior experience. 24 Hospira conducts sales activity outside of the United States and is subject to additional business risks that may cause its sales and profitability to decline. Because Hospira’s products are sold outside the United States, its business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. In 2006, Hospira’s business derived $468.0 million, or 17% of its net sales, from sales of products outside of the United States. With the acquisition of Mayne Pharma, which derives a substantial majority of its revenues outside the United States, a significantly higher percentage of sales will be generated outside the United States in 2007 and beyond. Hospira may continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales of products outside the United States, which could expose Hospira to greater risks. The risks associated with Hospira’s operations outside the United States include: · changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; · multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospira’s international product commercialization efforts; · differing local product preferences and product requirements; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing international operations; · differing labor regulations; · complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws; · potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; · political and economic instability; and · diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States. Hospira operates through distributors in many countries outside the United States. Its success will depend on the efforts and performance of such distributors, which is beyond Hospira’s control. The acquisition of Mayne Pharma will increase the dependence of the international business on the performance of distributors. These risks could have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the United States and on Hospira’s profitability. Hospira is subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability and require Hospira to change its business practices and restrict its operations in the future. Hospira’s industry is subject to various national, supranational, federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in national, federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans’ Administration health programs and health programs outside the United States. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Hospira to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Hospira’s business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospira’s sales, profitability and financial condition. 25 State and federal investigations and existing and future lawsuits relating to the alleged reporting of false or misleading pricing information in connection with Medicare and Medicaid programs could have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s business, profitability and financial condition. Various state and federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice and various state attorneys general, are investigating a number of pharmaceutical companies, including Abbott, for allegedly engaging in improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare- and Medicaid-reimbursable products, including practices relating to average wholesale price (“AWP”). These are civil investigations that are seeking to identify the practices and determine whether those practices violated any laws, including federal and state false claims acts, or constituted fraud in connection with the Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement paid to third parties. In addition, Abbott is a defendant in a number of purported class actions on behalf of individuals or entities, including healthcare insurers and other third-party payors, that allege generally that Abbott and numerous other pharmaceutical companies reported false or misleading pricing information in connection with federal, state and private reimbursement for certain drugs. Since the spin-off, Hospira has been named as a defendant in some of these suits, as further described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Marketing and Pricing Cases.” Hospira’s products are involved in these investigations and lawsuits. There may be additional investigations or lawsuits, or additional claims in existing investigations or lawsuits, initiated with respect to these matters in the future. Hospira may be named as a subject or defendant in more of these investigations or lawsuits. Abbott will indemnify Hospira for liabilities associated with pending or future AWP investigations and lawsuits only to the extent that they are of the same nature as the lawsuits and investigations that existed against Abbott as of the spin-off date and relate to the sale of Hospira products prior to the spin-off. Hospira will assume any other losses that may result from these investigations and lawsuits related to Hospira’s products. Hospira has not established any reserves related to these matters, and Hospira does not currently believe insurance coverage will be available for any resulting losses. These investigations and lawsuits could result in changes to Hospira’s business practices or pricing policies, civil or criminal monetary damages, penalties or fines, imprisonment and/or exclusion of Hospira’s products from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans’ Administration health programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s business, profitability and financial condition. Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospira’s results of operations and result in greater- than-anticipated liabilities. Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospira’s income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the United States, where a portion of its income is sourced. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospira’s overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospira’s future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Reserves are established when, despite Hospira’s belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authority’s determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and reserves are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the 26 amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Hospira may incur product liability losses and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Hospira’s business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs and medical devices and products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin-off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospira’s risk management policy, Hospira carries third-party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible that provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s profitability and financial condition. If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed. Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospira’s intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Most of Hospira’s products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospira’s intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospira’s products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospira’s intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain sufficient international protection for its intellectual property, Hospira’s competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales. If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products. Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a “first-to-market” position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions may result in increased litigation, which could be costly and time consuming, and which may not be successful. Hospira and Mayne Pharma have made abbreviated new drug applications and certifications (known as “paragraph IV certifications”) that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira or Mayne Pharma product, or were invalid or enforceable, in the United States and equivalent filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators challenging these paragraph IV certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs. 27 Third parties may claim that Hospira’s products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time-consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms or at all. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospira’s profitability and financial condition. Hospira has outstanding stock options, which may dilute the ownership of its existing shareholders. As of December 31, 2006, Hospira had approximately 13.6 million outstanding stock options and the ability to award approximately 10.0 million additional share-based awards under its equity compensation plan. As of December 31, 2006, Hospira’s outstanding option awards had a weighted average exercise price of $32.52, which was below the market price of Hospira’s stock at that time. Exercises of stock options at a price below the market price of Hospira’s stock will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 