Item 1A: Risk Factors An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before buying shares of our stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our stock could decline and you may lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our stock. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Although we began developing our predecessor technology in 1987, we did not launch commercial operations until we qualified our pilot production line in January 2002. We qualified the first production line at our Ohio plant in November 2004, the second and third production lines at our Ohio plant in August 2006 and our German plant in the third quarter of 2007. Because these production lines have only been in operation for a limited period of time, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. While our net sales grew from $48.1 million in 2005 to $504.0 million in 2007, we may be unable to achieve similar growth, or grow at all, in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior period as an indication of our future performance. Thin film technology has a short history and our thin film technology and solar modules may perform below expectations. Researchers began developing thin film semiconductor technology over 20 years ago, but were unable to integrate the technology into a solar module production line until recently. Our oldest active production line has only been in operation since November 2004 and the oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot line have only been in use since 2001. As a result, our thin film technology and solar modules do not have a sufficient operating history to confirm how our solar modules will perform over their estimated 25-year useful life. We perform a variety of quality and life tests under different conditions. However, if our thin film technology and solar modules perform below expectations, we could lose customers and face substantial warranty expense. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved photovoltaic products could render our solar modules uncompetitive or obsolete and reduce our net sales and market share. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. Our significant expenditures on research and development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are developing a variety of competing photovoltaic technologies, including copper indium gallium diselenide and amorphous silicon, which could produce solar modules that prove more cost-effective or have better performance than 11 Table of Contents our solar modules. As a result, our solar modules may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of our competitors, which could reduce our net sales and market share. If photovoltaic technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or if sufficient demand for solar modules does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales may flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If photovoltaic technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for solar modules fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets — including Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United States — may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and demand for solar modules, including the following: • cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared to conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • performance and reliability of solar modules and thin film technology compared to conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • availability and substance of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; • success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated photovoltaic, and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of oil and other fossil fuels; • fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and interest rates increase; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry to permit wide spread adoption of solar electricity. Our future success depends on our ability to build new manufacturing plants and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, both of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our manufacturing capacity and production throughput in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy our contractual obligations or sustain profitability. Our ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: • making changes to our production process that are not properly qualified or may cause problems with the quality of our solar modules; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors; • our custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to manufacture than expected and may not operate as designed; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • being unable to hire qualified staff; and • failure to execute our expansion plans effectively. 12 Table of Contents If our future production lines are not built in line with our committed schedules or do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers. Currently, the production lines at our Ohio and German plants are our only production lines that have a history of operating at full capacity. Future production lines could produce solar modules that have lower efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation than solar modules from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to determine the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement solutions to improve performance. The second and third production lines at our Ohio plant, completed in August 2006, represent a “standard building block” that we replicated twice to build the four production lines at our German plant. We are using the same systematic replication process to build our Malaysian manufacturing center and future production facilities, including expansion of our existing production facilities. Our replication risk in connection with building production lines at our Malaysian manufacturing center and other future manufacturing plants could be higher than our replication risk was in expanding the Ohio plant because these new production lines are located internationally, which could entail other factors that will lower their operating metrics. If we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines to meet our committed schedules and achieve and sustain similar operating metrics in our Malaysian manufacturing center and future production lines as our existing production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained, our manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and we could lose customers, causing lower net sales, higher liabilities and lower net income than we anticipate. In addition, we might be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our long term customer contracts. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced. If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our contractual requirements. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our production lines based on designs or specifications that we provide the equipment manufacturer, who then undertakes a specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production line could be interrupted and we could be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our long term customer contracts. In addition, the failure of our equipment suppliers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our financial results. We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations effectively. We expect to expand our business significantly in order to meet our contractual obligations, satisfy demand for our solar modules and increase market share. In August 2006, we expanded our Ohio plant from one to three production lines. In April 2007, we started initial production at our four line manufacturing plant in Germany, which reached full capacity in the third quarter of 2007. Also in April 2007, we began construction of plant one of our Malaysian manufacturing center. In the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we began construction of plants two and three respectively, and in the first quarter of 2008, we began construction of plant four. Following the completion of plant four of our Malaysian manufacturing center we will have grown from one production line to 23 production lines with an annual global manufacturing capacity of approximately 1012MW in four years based on the fourth quarter of 2007 run rate at our existing plants. To manage the rapid expansion of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing associate base. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls might be inadequate to support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. 13 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key raw materials and components and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing cost. Most of our key raw materials and components are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, many of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials and components as we implement our planned rapid expansion. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. Raw materials and components from new suppliers may also be less suited for our technology and yield solar modules with lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation than solar modules manufactured with the raw materials from our current suppliers. A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet our obligations under our long term customer contracts, which would have an adverse impact on our financial results. A disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our semiconductor material, could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture solar modules. The key raw material we use in our production process is a cadmium telluride compound, with the tellurium component of the compound being the most critical. Currently, we purchase most of our cadmium telluride in manufactured form from a limited number of suppliers. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers are unable to perform under their contracts or purchase orders, our operations could be interrupted or impaired. In addition, because our suppliers must undergo a lengthy qualification process, we may be unable to replace a lost supplier in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. Our supply of cadmium telluride could also be limited if any of our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers is unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our competitors begin to use or increase their demand for cadmium telluride, supply could be reduced and prices could increase. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot obtain sufficient tellurium, it could substantially increase prices or be unable to perform under their contracts. We may be unable to pass increases in the cost of our raw materials through to our customers because our customer contracts do not adjust for raw material price increases and are generally for a longer term than our raw material supply contracts. A reduction in our production could result in our inability to meet our commitments under our long term customer contracts, all of which would have an adverse impact on our financial results. We currently depend on a limited number of customers, with six customers accounting for substantially all of our net sales in 2007. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers could significantly reduce our net sales and negatively impact our operating results. We currently sell substantially all of our solar modules to customers headquartered throughout the European Union. During 2007, our six largest customers each accounted for between 10% and 23% of our net sales. The loss of any of our large customers, their inability to perform under their contracts, or their default in payment could significantly reduce our net sales and adversely impact our operating results. In addition, our Long Term Supply Contracts extend through 2012 and we expect them to allocate a significant amount of our production capacity to a limited number of customers. As a result, we do not expect to have a significant amount of excess production capacity to identify and then build relationships with new customers that could replace any lost customers, and we will have to rely on future expansions to attract and service new customers. In addition, our customer relationships have been developed over a relatively short period of time and we cannot guarantee that we will have good relations with our customers in the future. Several of our competitors have more established relationships with our customers and may gain a larger share of our customers’ business over time. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per solar module and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, we will be in default under certain of our Long Term Supply Contracts and our profitability could decline. Our Long Term Supply Contracts require either an increase in the minimum average number of watts per module of approximately 5% annually from 2008 to 2009 and then by 3% in 2012 or a base number of watts per module that increases 3-4% annually from 2008 to 2010/2011 and then remains fixed through 2012. Our failure to achieve these metrics could reduce our profitability or allow some of our customers to terminate their contracts. In addition, all of our Long Term Supply Contracts specify a sales price per watt that declines by approximately 6.5% at the beginning of each year through the expiration date of each contract in 2012. Our profitability could decline if we are unable to reduce our manufacturing cost per watt by at least the same rate at which our contractual prices decrease. Furthermore, our failure to reduce cost per watt by increasing our efficiency may impair our ability to enter new markets that we believe will require lower cost per watt for us to be competitive and may impair our growth plans. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net sales and adversely impact our operating results. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for on-grid solar electricity may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and non-solar renewable sources of energy, and could materially and adversely affect the growth of the solar energy industry and our net sales. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar energy is used to supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the utility network, depends significantly on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the cost of solar electricity substantially exceeds the retail price of electricity in every significant market in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, France, Greece, Portugal, South Korea, Japan, Canada and the United States, have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax incentives and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and manufacturers of photovoltaic products. For example, Germany, which accounted for 90.7% of our net sales in 2007, has been a strong supporter of photovoltaic products and systems, and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions in or the elimination of incentives. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, exhaust the allocated funding or require renewal by the applicable authority. For example, German subsidies decline at a rate of 5.0% or 6.5% per year (based on the type of the photovoltaic system) and discussions are ongoing about modifying the German Renewable Energy Law, or the EEG. The government proposal for the EEG amendment published on December 5, 2007 provides a one time adjustment of one euro cent per kWh starting on January 1, 2009 plus a gradual increase of degression rates for roof systems from currently 5% to 7% starting 2009 and to 8% starting 2011, and for ground mounted systems from currently 6.5% to 7% starting 2009 and to 8% starting 2011. It also recommends the introduction of a new tariff group for roof systems greater than 1000 kWp with a feed-in tariff of 34.48 euro cents per kWh in 2009. If the German government reduces or eliminates the subsidies under the EEG, demand for photovoltaic products could significantly decline in Germany. In Spain, which accounted for approximately 1% of our net sales, the Spanish Royal Decree currently supports system installations registered before September 27, 2008. Proposals for a follow-up regulation are under discussion, however, a final conclusion is not expected before March of 2008. If the Spanish government does not release a new decree before September 27, 2008, there will be no feed-in tariff for new PV systems installed, connected or registered after that date. In the United States, California has been the State where the majority of solar installations have taken place during the past five years. Starting January 1, 2007, the California Solar Initiative (CSI) has established a goal of installing 3000MW of solar generated electricity by 2017 with a State budget of $3.3 billion over 10 years. The CSI is structured to reduce the incentives paid to solar system owners as the cumulative volume of solar installations reaches pre-determined threshold limits. For example, the buy-down incentives and performance based incentives are planned to be reduced by approximately 50% between a cumulative installed solar capacity of 100MW and 15 Table of Contents 200MW, potentially reducing demand for solar unless system cost reductions can be achieved. Emerging subsidy programs, such as the programs in Italy, France, Greece, South Korea and Ontario, Canada, may require an extended period of time to attain effectiveness because the applicable permitting and grid connection processes associated with these programs can be lengthy and administratively burdensome. In addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to be unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other reasons, sales of our solar modules in these countries could decline significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, the predecessor to the German EEG was challenged in Germany on constitutional grounds and in the European Court of Justice as impermissible state aid. Although the German Federal High Court of Justice dismissed these constitutional concerns and the European Court of Justice held that the purchase requirement at minimum feed-in tariffs did not constitute impermissible state aid, new proceedings challenging the Renewable Energies Act or comparable minimum price regulations in other countries in which we currently operate or intend to operate may be initiated. Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could cause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, the 30% business and residential investment tax credit for solar energy systems reverts back to 10% at the end of 2008, unless it is extended. The United States Congress attempted to extend the 30% investment tax credit during 2007, but was unsuccessful. If the 30% investment tax credit is not extended, or not extended by mid-year 2008 or is only extended for a limited period of time, demand for solar energy systems in the United States, at prices that are profitable, could decline. We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules, thin film solar modules and solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic systems. The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. We believe that our main sources of competition are crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers, other thin film solar module manufacturers and companies developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic technologies. At the end of 2007, the global photovoltaic industry consisted of over 100 manufacturers of solar cells and modules. Within the photovoltaic industry, we face competition from crystalline silicon solar cell and module manufacturers. We also face competition from established thin film solar module manufacturers and several crystalline silicon manufacturers who are developing thin film technologies. We also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor equipment manufacturers and numerous startup companies that have attracted significant funding during 2007 — or their customers, several of which have begun or have already announced their intention to start production of photovoltaic cells, solar modules or turnkey production lines. In addition to manufacturers of solar cells and modules, we face competition from companies developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic technologies. Even if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid expansion plans of many solar cell and module manufacturers could create periods where supply exceeds demand. During any such period, our competitors could decide to reduce their sales price, even below their manufacturing cost, in order to generate sales. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our net sales and harm our results of operations. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. A competitor’s greater size provides them with a competitive advantage because they often can realize economies of scale and purchase certain raw materials at lower prices. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential 16 Table of Contents distributors and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result of their greater size, some of our competitors may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. In addition, a significant increase in the supply of silicon feedstock or a significant reduction in the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules could lead to pricing pressures for solar modules. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. We have significant marketing and distribution operations outside the United States and, with the completion of our German plant and construction of our Malaysian manufacturing center, we expect to have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States. In 2007, 98.8% of our net sales were generated from customers headquartered in the European Union. In the future, we expect to expand our operations in other European countries beyond Germany, Malaysia and other Asian countries; and as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: • difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the extent the price of our solar modules and cost of raw materials, labor and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises; • changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in the government incentives we are relying on; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and quotas; • difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the price of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some countries; and • difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer and sell our solar modules. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. In addition, each of the foregoing risks is likely to take on increased significance as we implement our plans to expand our foreign manufacturing operations. Problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. Our solar modules are sold with a five year materials and workmanship warranty for technical defects and a twenty-five year warranty against declines of more than 10% of their initial rated power in the first 10 years following their installation and 20% of initial rated power in the following 15 years, respectively. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. As of December 29, 2007, our accrued warranty liability was $7.3 million. 17 Table of Contents While our power output warranty extends for twenty-five years, our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001. Because of the limited operating history of our solar modules, we have been required to make assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our solar modules. Our assumptions could prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules in the future. For example, our glass-on-glass solar modules could break, delaminate or experience power degradation in excess of expectations. In addition, once our solar modules are installed, connected and exposed to sunlight, but before they are connected to a power grid or there is a load otherwise put on them, they are in an open circuit condition. We are continuing to collect data on the long-term effects on reliability and service life that results from extended periods of the solar modules being in an open circuit condition, particularly in high ambient temperature conditions. Although the data available to us to date does not suggest significant deterioration in long-term performance of solar modules that are left in a prolonged open circuit condition, it may become apparent with future experience that the long-term performance and service life of our solar modules is affected by remaining in an open circuit condition for prolonged periods of time. Any widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline and require us to repair or replace the defective modules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If our estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling our solar modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and face a significant unplanned cash burden when our end-users return their solar modules. We pre-fund our estimated future obligation for collecting and recycling our solar modules based on the present value of the expected future cost of the collecting and recycling process. This cost includes the cost of packaging the solar module for transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s installation site to a recycling center and the material, labor and capital costs of the recycling process. The related expense that we recognize in our financial statements also includes an estimated third-party profit margin and risk rate for such services. Currently, we base our estimates on our experience collecting and recycling solar modules that do not pass our quality control tests and solar modules returned under our warranty and on our expectations about future developments in recycling technologies and processes and about economic conditions at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and also face a significant unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end-users return their solar modules, which could harm our operating results. In addition, our end-users can return their solar modules at any time. As a result, we could be required to collect and recycle our solar modules earlier than we expect and before recycling technologies and processes improve. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key associates and to successfully integrate them into our management team. We are dependent on the services of Michael J. Ahearn, our Chief Executive Officer, Bruce Sohn, our President, Jens Meyerhoff, our Chief Financial Officer, Ken Schultz, our Executive Vice President Global Marketing and Business Development, John T. Gaffney, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, and other members of our senior management team. The loss of Messrs. Ahearn, Sohn, Meyerhoff, Schultz, Gaffney, or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these key associates. Several of our current key associates, including Messrs. Ahearn, Sohn, Meyerhoff, Schultz, and Gaffney are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice. If we are unable to attract, train and retain key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain management, operations and technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the photovoltaic industry, thin film technology and cadmium telluride, are vital to our success. There is substantial 18 Table of Contents competition for qualified technical personnel and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. In addition, a significant percentage of our current management, operations and technical personnel have stock options that vest in 2008 and it may be more difficult to retain these individuals after their options vest. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology, especially our proprietary vapor transport deposition process and laser scribing process, is critical to our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. As of December 29, 2007, we held 22 patents in the United States and 14 patents in select foreign jurisdictions. A majority of our patents expire at various times between 2009 and 2023. Our existing patents and future patents could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We have pending patent applications in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our associates and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have not applied for patent, trademark or copyright protection. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technology. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An 19 Table of Contents adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our solar module, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution of such litigation. Currency translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and gross margins and could result in exchange losses. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject to currency translation and transaction risk. For example, 95.0% and 98.8% of our net sales were outside the United States and denominated in euros for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006 and December 29, 2007, respectively, and we expect a large percentage of our net sales to be outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, with the expansion of our manufacturing operations into Germany and our current expansion into Malaysia, our operating expenses for the plants in these countries will be denominated in the local currency. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange gains or losses. For example, the strengthening euro contributed $43.8 million to our net sales during fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from our reporting currency. For example, our Long Term Supply Contracts specify fixed pricing in euros through 2012 and do not adjust for changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to increase. An increase in interest rates or tightening of the supply of capital by Global Financial Markets could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a photovoltaic system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules. Many of our end-users depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a photovoltaic system. As a result, an increase in interest rates could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the financing necessary to purchase and install a photovoltaic system on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar modules and reduce our net sales. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install photovoltaic systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a photovoltaic system, or make alternative investments more attractive relative to photovoltaic systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of non-recourse project debt financing or tax equity investments could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing and thus lower demand for solar modules. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar modules. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of photovoltaic products and investment in the research and development of photovoltaic technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems, utility 20 Table of Contents customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our end-users of using photovoltaic systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by photovoltaic systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require photovoltaic systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity. We anticipate that our solar modules and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar modules. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local and international level. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational health and safety. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or other costs. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our products contain cadmium telluride and cadmium sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are regulated as hazardous due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. Although the risks of exposure to cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those relating to exposure to elemental cadmium, the chemical, physical and toxicological properties of cadmium telluride have not been thoroughly investigated and reported. We maintain engineering controls to minimize associate exposure to cadmium and require our associates who handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures, including the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles and protective clothing. In addition, we believe the risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our end-products is limited by the fully encapsulated nature of these materials in our products, as well as the implementation in 2005 of our end of life collection and recycling program for our solar modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are sufficient to protect our associates, end-users and the general public from cadmium exposure, we cannot assure you that human or environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in future third-party claims against us, as well as damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products, which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute our products. The occurrence of future events such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The use of cadmium in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Future regulation in this area could impact the manufacture, sale, collection, and recycling of cadmium-containing solar modules and could require us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures or limit our ability to sell and distribute our products. For example, the European Union Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or the “WEEE Directive,” requires manufacturers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of specified products sold in the European Union. In addition, European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, or the “RoHS Directive,” restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including cadmium, in specified products. Other jurisdictions are considering adopting similar 21 Table of Contents legislation. Currently, photovoltaic solar modules in general are not subject to the WEEE or RoHS Directives; however, these directives allow for future amendments subjecting additional products to their requirements and the scope, applicability and the products included in the WEEE and RoHS Directives are currently being considered and may change. If, in the future, our solar modules become subject to requirements such as these, we may be required to apply for an exemption. If we were unable to obtain an exemption, we would be required to redesign our solar modules in order to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union, which would be impractical. Failure to comply with these directives could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the inability to sell our solar modules in the European Union, competitive disadvantages and loss of net sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have significant control over us and their interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a stockholder. Our current majority stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates, including JCL Holdings, LLC, beneficially own approximately 45.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide that unless and until the Estate of John T. Walton, JCL Holdings, LLC, John T. Walton’s surviving spouse, descendants, any entity (including a trust) that is for the benefit of John T. Walton’s surviving spouse or descendants or any entity (including a trust) over which any of John T. Walton’s surviving spouse, descendants or siblings has voting or dispositive power (collectively, the “Estate”) collectively owns less than 40% of our common stock then outstanding, stockholders holding 40% or more of our common stock then outstanding may call a special meeting of the stockholders, at which our stockholders could replace our board of directors. In addition, unless and until the Estate collectively owns less than 40% of our common stock then outstanding, stockholder action may be taken by written consent. The interests of the Estate could conflict with or differ from your interests as a holder of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination which you may view favorably. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. In November 2007, we acquired Turner Renewable Energy, LLC and in the future, we may acquire additional companies, products or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include the following: • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; • difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information and other administrative systems; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; • inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; 22 Table of Contents • potential impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third party providers of technology or products; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial liabilities, among other things; • potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; • potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and • potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Goodwill recorded in connection with the acquisition of Turner Renewable Energy, LLC in November 2007 was $33.4 million. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 