Risk Factors — Our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in California beyond existing projects may be adversely affected if California is unable to achieve a 33% renewable mandate through law” below. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides for certain measures intended to benefit on-grid solar electricity generation and other renewable energy initiatives, including (1) a cash grant in lieu of the 30% federal investment tax credit for solar installations that are placed into service during 2009 and 2010 or that begin construction prior to December 31, 2010 and are placed into service by January 1, 2017, and (2) a 50% bonus depreciation for installations placed in service during 2009. Various legislation has been proposed to extend or enhance the 30% grant in lieu of the tax credit as well as bonus depreciation. However, enactment of the extension or enhancement of such incentives is highly uncertain. The failure to extend or enhance these programs may reduce tax equity availability (in the case of the grant expiration) which may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing for utility-scale projects and may otherwise adversely affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar market. In Ontario, Canada, a new feed-in tariff program was introduced in September 2009 and replaced the Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program (RESOP) as the primary subsidy program for future renewable energy projects. In order to participate in the Ontario feed-in tariff program, certain provisions relating to minimum required domestic content and land use restrictions for solar installations must be satisfied. The new domestic content and land restriction rules do not apply to our Sarnia solar project and the other projects governed by RESOP contracts that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of the solar power project development business of OptiSolar Inc. in April 2009. However, our Ontario projects in earlier stages of development that are not governed by RESOP contracts, as well as any potential new projects in Ontario, will be subject to such domestic content and land restriction rules. As these rules are currently written, we will be unable to fully satisfy such rules (in particular the domestic content requirement rules), thus projects incorporating our modules will not qualify for the Ontario feed-in tariff. In the event the Ontario domestic content and land use restriction rules are not sufficiently modified, our ability to participate in the Ontario feed-in tariff program for future projects will be substantially reduced and possibly completely eliminated, and thus our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in Ontario, Canada beyond our existing RESOP projects would be adversely affected. In China, governmental authorities have not adopted a feed-in tariff policy and currently award solar projects through either a project tendering process or bi-lateral negotiations. While the solar industry generally anticipates that China will adopt a solar feed-in tariff, there is no guarantee this will occur in a timely manner or at all or that any feed-in tariff will be economically viable. Without a feed-in tariff, the size and attractiveness of China’s solar market may be limited and we may be unable to sell into China at an attractive price, limiting one of our anticipated growth markets. In Australia, the large-scale solar industry is in its infancy, and despite several encouraging government funded initiatives to promote large-scale solar generation, it is uncertain whether such programs can be successfully executed. In 2009, India announced its National Solar Mission, which includes a goal of installing 20GW of solar by 2022. India is expected to announce a feed-in tariff for the first phase of the National Solar Mission in 2010. There is no guarantee that India will maintain its current 20GW by 2022 goal or adopt the required policies to meet that goal, without which, the size and attractiveness of India’s solar market may be limited and we may be unable to sell modules or systems in India at an attractive price, limiting one of our anticipated growth markets. Emerging subsidy programs may require an extended period of time to attain effectiveness because the applicable permitting and grid connection processes associated with these programs can be lengthy and administratively burdensome. Page 14 In addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to be unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other reasons, sales prices and/or volumes of our solar modules in these countries could decline significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could limit our growth or cause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in California beyond existing projects may be adversely affected if California is unable to achieve a 33% renewable mandate through law. California currently requires its investor-owned utilities (IOUs) to procure 20% of their electricity supplies through eligible renewable energy resources by 2010. In addition, California, through Executive Order has established a utility procurement goal of 33% renewable electricity by 2020. Due to the threat of penalties under the current law, investor-owned utilities have the incentive to comply and have therefore signed long-term contracts to meet the 20% procurement requirement. However, since the 33% procurement of renewable electricity by 2020 goal is not enforceable through law, it is conceivable that renewable energy procurement in California could peak around 20% of the IOU’s electricity retail sales in 2010. If the state legislature and Governor’s office are unable to adopt legislation that could be signed into law by the end of 2010, the viability of the 33% RPS program would remain at risk. California’s current financial difficulties could contribute to an environment in which the 33% RPS program could be questioned. In addition, any weakening or delay of the 33% RPS program could contribute to, or be accompanied by, increased project execution risks, delay, or costs relating to California authorities, such as the California Independent System Operator. Under such a scenario, our ability to execute a long-term expansion plan to develop additional large-scale PV projects in California could be adversely affected. An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic modules. Many of our customers and our systems business depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to develop, build and purchase a PV system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates could make it difficult for our customers or our systems business to secure the financing necessary to develop, build, purchase or install a PV system on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar modules which could limit our growth or reduce our net sales. Due to the overall economic outlook, our end-users may change their decision or change the timing of their decision to develop, build, purchase or install a PV system. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install PV systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a PV system, increase equity return requirements or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of project debt financing or tax equity investments could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing and thus lower demand for solar modules. As described above under “Item 1: Business — Sales and Marketing — Economic Incentives,” the 30% grant in lieu of the federal investment tax credit under the ARRA is set to expire and unless extended, will not be available for solar installations that begin construction on or after January 1, 2011. If such program is not extended, total tax equity availability could be reduced which may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing for utility-scale projects and may adversely affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar market. We currently sell a substantial portion of our solar modules under Long-Term Supply Contracts, and we allocate a significant amount of our production to satisfy our obligations under these contracts. These customers buy our modules with the expectation that they will be able to resell them in connection with the development of PV systems. As discussed above, many of these projects depend on the availability of debt and equity financing. A prolonged, material disruption to the supply of project finance could adversely affect our customers’ ability to perform under these agreements. In the event of default by one or more of these customers, we may be unable to sell these modules at the prices specified in our Long-Term Supply Contracts, especially if demand for PV systems softens or supply of solar modules increases. Also, we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain customers in certain markets in response to changes in economic circumstances of our customers, their end markets or the capital markets. See “Item 1: Business — Segment Information — Components Business — Customers” for a description of previous pricing adjustments under our Long-Term Supply Contracts. Page 15 We currently depend on a limited number of customers, with five customers accounting for a majority of our components business’ net sales last year. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers could significantly reduce our net sales and negatively impact our operating results. We currently sell substantially all of our solar modules to customers headquartered throughout the European Union. During 2009, our five largest customers for our components business each accounted for between 10% and 19% of our component business’ net sales. Our customer base within our components business is currently concentrated to a significant extent in Germany, and therefore the likely additional German feed-in tariff reductions currently under discussion could reduce demand and/or price levels for our modules sold to these customers. The loss of any of our large customers, their inability to perform under their contracts, or their default in payment could significantly reduce our net sales and adversely impact our operating results. Our customers face significant challenges under current economic conditions, including lack of capital to finance solar projects and rising costs associated with leasing or otherwise acquiring land and rooftops for solar projects. We believe that we can mitigate this risk by re-allocating modules to other customers if the need arises, but we may be unable, in whole or in part, to mitigate the reduced demand for our modules. In the event that we determine that our planned production of solar modules exceeds the demand we anticipate, we may decide to reduce or halt production of solar modules in our manufacturing facilities. However, we may be unable to anticipate and respond to the oversupply of solar modules because we have limited visibility into our customers’ inventories. Risks Related to Regulations Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar modules. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of photovoltaic products and investment in the research and development of photovoltaic technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. If these interconnection standby fees were applicable to PV systems, it is likely that they would increase the cost to our end-users of using PV systems which could make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by PV systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate for all times of the day, would require PV systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from other sources. We anticipate that our solar modules and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar modules. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local and international level. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational health and safety. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or other costs. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Page 16 In addition, our products contain cadmium telluride and cadmium sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are regulated as hazardous due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. Although the risks of exposure to cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those relating to exposure to elemental cadmium, the chemical, physical and toxicological properties of cadmium telluride have not been thoroughly investigated and reported. We maintain engineering controls to minimize our associates’ exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds and require our associates who handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures, including the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles and protective clothing. In addition, we believe the risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our end-products is limited by the fully encapsulated nature of these materials in our products, the physical properties of cadmium compounds used in our products and the implementation in 2005 of our collection and recycling program for our solar modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are sufficient to protect our associates, end-users and the general public from cadmium exposure, we cannot assure that human or environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in future third-party claims against us, as well as damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products, which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute our products. The occurrence of future events such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The use of cadmium in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Future regulation in this area could impact the manufacture, sale, collection and recycling of solar modules and could require us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures or limit our ability to sell and distribute our products. For example, European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS Directive), restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including cadmium, in specified products. Other jurisdictions, such as China have adopted similar legislation or are considering doing so. Currently, PV solar modules are not subject to the RoHS Directive; however, the RoHS Directive allows for future amendments subjecting additional products to the requirements and the scope. Applicability and the products included in the Directive may also change. In December 2008, the European Commission issued its proposed revision of the RoHS Directive. This proposed revision did not include photovoltaic solar modules in the scope of RoHS, but is now being amended by both the European Parliament and the European Union Members States as part of the normal European Union legislative process. The European Council and the European Parliament are currently considering an “open scope” approach to the RoHS Directive under which all Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EEE) products would be included in the scope of the RoHS Directive unless specifically excluded or exempted from coverage. As part of these discussions, exclusion for PV panels from the RoHS Directive is being considered. A final legislative agreement on the RoHS Directive is not expected until 2011 at the earliest. If PV modules are included in the scope of RoHS without an exemption or exclusion, we would be required to redesign our solar modules to eliminate cadmium in order to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union, which would be impractical. In such event, the European Union market would be in effect closed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, 86% of our total net sales were generated from module sales in the European Union. In addition, some of our competitors are increasingly focusing on our modules’ use of cadmium telluride in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage over us. If such actions are successful, they could result in a loss of sales and potentially limit our growth. Risks Related to our Operations, Manufacturing and Technology Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Although we began developing our predecessor technology in 1987, we did not launch commercial operations until we qualified our pilot production line in January 2002. We qualified the first production line at our Ohio plant in November 2004, the second and third production lines at our Ohio plant in August 2006, our German plant in the third quarter of 2007, and our Malaysian plants in 2008 and 2009. Because these production lines have only been in operation for a limited period of time, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. While our net sales grew from $135.0 million in 2006 to $2.1 billion in 2009, we may be unable to achieve similar growth, or grow at all, in future periods. Our ability to achieve similar growth in future periods is also affected by current economic conditions. Our past results occurred in an environment where, among other things, capital was generally more accessible to our customers to finance the cost of developing solar projects and economic incentives for solar power in certain core markets (such as the German feed-in tariff) were more favorable. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior period as an indication of our future performance. See “Item 1: Business — Segment Information — Components Business — Customers” for a description of previous pricing adjustments under our Long-Term Supply Contracts. We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules, thin film solar modules and solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic systems; if global supply exceeds global demand, it could lead to a reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic modules. The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. Within the global photovoltaic industry, we face competition from crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers, other thin film solar module manufacturers and companies developing solar thermal and concentrated photovoltaic technologies. Page 17 Even if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid expansion plans of many solar cell and module manufacturers could create periods where supply exceeds demand. In addition, we believe the significant decrease in the cost of silicon feedstock will provide significant reductions in the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules and lead to pricing pressure for solar modules and potentially the oversupply of solar modules, including in key markets such as Germany and Spain. During any such period, our competitors could decide to reduce their sales price in response to competition, even below their manufacturing cost, in order to generate sales. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain customers in certain markets in response to competition. Thin film technology has a short history and our thin film technology and solar modules may perform below expectations; problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. Researchers began developing thin film semiconductor technology over 20 years ago, but were unable to integrate the technology into a solar module production line until recently. Our oldest active production line has been in operation since November 2004, and the oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot line have been in use since 2001. As a result, our thin film technology and solar modules do not have a sufficient operating history to confirm how our solar modules will perform over their estimated 25-year useful life. We perform a variety of quality and life tests under different conditions. However, if our thin film technology and solar modules perform below expectations, we could lose customers and face substantial warranty expense. Our solar modules are sold with a five-year materials and workmanship warranty for technical defects and a 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10% of their initial rated power in the first 10 years following their installation and 20% of initial rated power in the following 15 years, respectively. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. As of December 26, 2009, our accrued warranty liability was $22.6 million, of which, $8.2 million was classified as current and $14.4 million was classified as noncurrent. While our power output warranty extends for 25 years, our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001. Because of the limited operating history of our solar modules, we have been required to make assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our solar modules. Our assumptions could prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules in the future. For example, our glass-on-glass solar modules could break, delaminate or experience power degradation in excess of expectations, our manufacturing operations could be subject to process variations that could cause affected modules to underperform compared to our expectations. Any widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline and require us to repair or replace the defective modules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If our estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling our solar modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and face a significant unplanned cash burden. We pre-fund our estimated future obligation for collecting and recycling our solar modules based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and recycling the modules, which includes the cost of packaging the solar modules for transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s installation site to a recycling center, the material, labor and capital costs of the recycling process and an estimated third-party profit margin and return on risk for collection and recycling. We base our estimate on our experience collecting and recycling solar modules that do not pass our quality control tests and solar modules returned under our warranty and on our expectations about future developments in recycling technologies and processes and economic conditions at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and also face a significant unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end-users return their solar modules, which could harm our operating results. In addition, our end-users can return their solar modules at any time. As a result, we could be required to collect and recycle our solar modules earlier than we expect and before recycling technologies and processes improve. Page 18 Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved photovoltaic products could render our solar modules uncompetitive or obsolete and reduce our net sales and market share. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to continue to improve our module conversion efficiency and to otherwise keep pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. We seek to continuously improve our products and processes, and the resulting changes carry potential risks in the form of delays, additional costs or other unintended contingencies. In addition, our significant expenditures on research and development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are developing a variety of competing photovoltaic technologies, including copper indium gallium diselenide and amorphous silicon, which could produce solar modules that prove more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar modules. In addition, other companies could potentially develop a highly reliable renewable energy system that mitigates the intermittent power production drawback of many renewable energy systems, or offers other value-added improvements from the perspective of utilities and other system owners, in which case such companies could compete with us even if the levelized cost of electricity associated with such new system is higher than that of our systems. As a result, our solar modules may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of our competitors, which could reduce our net sales and market share. In addition, we often forward price our products and services (including through our Long-Term Supply Contracts and power purchase agreements) in anticipation of future cost reductions, and thus an inability to further refine our technology and execute our long-term cost reduction objectives could adversely affect our margins and operating results. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. As of December 26, 2009, we held 22 patents in the United States, which will expire at various times between 2012 and 2026, and had 96 patent applications pending. We also held 28 patents and had over 100 patent applications pending in foreign jurisdictions. Our existing patents and future patents could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our associates and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have not applied for patent, trademark or copyright protection. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation may impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. Page 19 Many of our key raw materials and components are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited number of third-party suppliers and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing cost. Many of our key raw materials and components are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, many of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials and components as we implement our planned rapid expansion. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. Raw materials and components from new suppliers may also be less suited for our technology and yield solar modules with lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation than solar modules manufactured with the raw materials from our current suppliers. A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet our obligations under our Long-Term Supply Contracts, which would have an adverse impact on our financial results. A disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our semiconductor material, could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture solar modules. A key raw material we use in our production process is a cadmium telluride compound. Tellurium is mainly produced as a by-product of copper refining, and its supply is therefore largely dependent upon demand for copper. Currently, we purchase these raw materials from a limited number of suppliers. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers are unable to perform under their contracts or purchase orders, our operations could be interrupted or impaired. In addition, because our suppliers must undergo a lengthy qualification process, we may be unable to replace a lost supplier in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. Our supply of cadmium telluride could also be limited if any of our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers are unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our competitors begin to use or increase their demand for cadmium telluride, supply could be reduced and prices could increase. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot obtain sufficient tellurium, they could substantially increase prices or be unable to perform under their contracts. We may be unable to pass increases in the cost of our raw materials through to our customers because our customer contracts do not adjust for raw material price increases and are generally for a longer term than our raw material supply contracts. A reduction in our production could result in our inability to meet our commitments under our Long-Term Supply Contracts, all of which would have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our future success depends on our ability to build new manufacturing plants and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, both of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our manufacturing capacity and production throughput in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy our contractual obligations or sustain profitability. Our ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: · making changes to our production process that are not properly qualified or that may cause problems with the quality of our solar modules; · delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors; · our custom-built equipment taking longer and costing more to manufacture than expected and not operating as designed; · delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; · being unable to hire qualified staff; · failure to execute our expansion plans effectively; and · manufacturing concentration risk resulting from an expected 24 out of 34 announced production lines worldwide by the end of 2012 being located in one geographic area, Malaysia. Page 20 If our future production lines are not built in line with our committed schedules it may impair our growth plans, if our future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers. Currently, our production lines have a limited history of operating at full capacity. Future production lines could produce solar modules that have lower efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation than solar modules from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to determine the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement solutions to improve performance. Although we will be using the same systematic replication process to build our French manufacturing center and expand our Malaysian manufacturing center that we successfully used when building and expanding our existing German and Malaysian production facilities, our replication risk in connection with building production lines at our French manufacturing center and other future manufacturing plants could be higher than our replication risk was in building and expanding our existing German and Malaysian production facilities because two of these new production lines are located in a new geographic area for us, which could entail other factors that may lower their operating metrics. If we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines to meet our committed schedules and achieve and sustain similar operating metrics in our future production lines as we have achieved at our existing production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained, our manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and this may impair our growth plans and/or cause us to lose customers, resulting in lower net sales, higher liabilities and lower net income than we anticipate. In addition, we might be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our Long-Term Supply Contracts. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced. If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our contractual requirements. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our production lines based on designs or specifications that we provide to the equipment manufacturer, which then undertakes a specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production line could be interrupted and we could be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our Long-Term Supply Contracts. In addition, the failure of our equipment suppliers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our financial results. If we are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per solar module and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, we will be in default under certain of our Long-Term Supply Contracts and our profitability could decline. Our Long-Term Supply Contracts either (1) require us to increase the minimum average number of watts per module over the term of the contract or (2) have a price adjustment for increases or decreases in the number of watts per module relative to a base number of watts per module. Our failure to achieve these metrics could reduce our profitability or allow some of our customers to terminate their contracts. In addition, all of our Long-Term Supply Contracts in Europe specify a sales price per watt that declines at the beginning of each year through the expiration date of each contract in 2012. Our profitability could decline if we are unable to reduce our manufacturing cost per watt by at least the same rate at which our contractual prices decrease. Furthermore, our failure to reduce cost per watt by increasing our efficiency may impair our ability to enter new markets that we believe will require lower cost per watt for us to be competitive and may impair our growth plans. We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations effectively. We expect to continue to expand our business in order to meet our contractual obligations, satisfy demand for our solar modules and maintain or increase market share. However, depending on the amount of additional contractual obligations we enter into and our ability to expand our manufacturing capabilities in accordance with our expectations, we might be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our Long-Term Supply Contracts and other commitments, in which case we could be in default under such agreements and our operating results may be adversely affected. Following the completion of our expansion of our Ohio plant in 2010, we will have grown from one production line in Ohio in 2005 to 24 production lines with an annual global manufacturing capacity of approximately 1282MW (based on the fourth quarter of 2009 average per line run rate at our existing plants). Construction of our two-line French manufacturing facility is expected to begin in the second half of 2010 and a full annual production capacity of more than 100MW is expected to be reached in early 2012. Our eight-line Malaysian expansion is expected to start production in the first half of 2011. Page 21 To manage the continued rapid expansion of our operations, we will be required to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing associate base. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls might be inadequate to support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. Implementing a new enterprise resource planning system could interfere with our business or operations and could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We expect to complete Phase 1 of this implementation in the second half of 2010. This project requires significant investment of capital and human resources, the re-engineering of many processes of our business, and the attention of many associates and managers who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated and could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, file SEC reports in a timely manner and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls environment, and any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. We have significant marketing, distribution and manufacturing operations both within and outside the United States. In 2009, 86% of our net sales were generated from customers headquartered in the European Union. In the future, we expect to expand our operations into China, India and other countries in Europe, Asia and the Middle East and elsewhere; as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: · difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; · foreign countries may impose additional income and withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign operations, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; · fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the extent the price of our solar modules and cost of raw materials, labor and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency; · inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; · risk of nationalization of private enterprises; · changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in the government incentives we are relying on; · unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and quotas; · opaque approval processes in which the lack of transparency may cause delays and increase the uncertainty of project approvals; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · difficulty in repatriating earnings; Page 22 · difficulty in negotiating a successful collective bargaining agreement in France or other jurisdictions; · trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes, local content requirements and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the price of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some countries; and · difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas countries in which we offer and sell our solar modules. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Risks Related to Our Systems Business Project development or construction activities may not be successful and projects under development may not receive required permits or construction may not commence as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. The development and construction of solar power electric generation facilities and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: · negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements; · receipt of required governmental permits and approvals, including the right to interconnect to the electric grid; · payment of interconnection and other deposits (some of which are non-refundable); · obtaining construction financing; and · timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: · delays in obtaining required governmental permits and approvals; · uncertainties relating to land costs for projects on land subject to Bureau of Land Management procedures; · unforeseen engineering problems; · construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; Page 23 · work stoppages; · cost over-runs · equipment and materials supply; · adverse weather conditions; and · environmental and geological conditions. If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power facility, or fail to meet one or more agreed target construction milestone dates, we may be subject to liquidated damages and/or penalties under the EPC agreement or other agreements relating to the project, and we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. Some of these investments are included as assets on our balance under the line item “project assets.” If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power project, we may write-down or write-off some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized. In 2010, we expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop projects owned by us or third parties. We may enter into fixed price EPC contracts in which we act as the general contractor for our customers in connection with the installation of our solar power systems. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into the EPC contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the overall price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the subcontractors, suppliers and other parties to the project. In addition, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project or delays in execution occur and we are unable to increase commensurately the EPC sales price, we may not achieve our expected margins or we may be required to record a loss in the relevant fiscal period. We may be unable to acquire or lease land and/or obtain the approvals, licenses and permits necessary to build and operate PV power plants in a timely and cost effective manner, and regulatory agencies, local communities or labor unions may delay, prevent or increase the cost of construction and operation of the PV plants we intend to build. In order to construct and operate our PV plants, we need to acquire or lease land and obtain all necessary local, county, state and federal approvals, licenses and permits. We may be unable to acquire the land or lease interests needed, may not receive or retain the requisite approvals, permits and licenses or may encounter other problems which could delay or prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants. For instance, the California Independent System Operator has recently modified its transmission interconnection rules, phasing out a serial process in favor of a cluster process for new projects, and may further modify its rules in a manner that could negatively impact our favorable position in transmission queues. Certain of our California projects under development will remain subject to the serial process while other projects in earlier stages of development, as well as new projects on a going-forward basis, will be subject to the cluster process. Although the transition to the cluster process is still evolving and its ultimate impact is not yet fully known, our project transmission cost could be materially higher than previously estimated under the serial process and our projects could be delayed or subject to transmission planning timing uncertainties. We also may be required to post interconnection deposits (which may not be refundable) sooner than previously estimated under the serial process. Many of our proposed PV plants are located on or require access through public lands administered by federal and state agencies pursuant to competitive public leasing and right-of-way procedures and processes. The authorization for the use, construction and operation of PV plants and associated transmission facilities on federal, state and private lands will also require the assessment and evaluation of mineral rights, private rights-of-way and other easements; environmental, agricultural, cultural, recreational and aesthetic impacts; and the likely mitigation of adverse impacts to these and other resources and uses. The inability to obtain the required permits and, potentially, excessive delay in obtaining such permits due, for example, to litigation, could prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants and could result in a potential forfeiture of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. Moreover, project approvals subject to project modifications and conditions, including mitigation requirements and costs, could affect the financial success of a given project. In addition, local labor unions may increase the cost of, and/or lower the productivity of, project development in Canada and California. In China our projects are subject to a number of government approvals, including the approval of a pre-feasibility and feasibility study. Individually, the pre-feasibility and feasibility study require many different government approvals at the national, provincial and local levels, and the approval process is discretionary and not fully transparent. Page 24 Lack of transmission capacity availability, potential upgrade costs to the transmission grid and other systems constraints could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity power sales. In order to deliver electricity from our PV plants to our customers, our projects need to connect to the transmission grid. The lack of available capacity on the transmission grid could substantially impact our projects and cause reductions in project size, delays in project implementation, increases in costs from transmission upgrades and potential forfeitures of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. These transmission issues, as well as issues relating to the availability of large systems such as transformers and switch gear, could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity sales. Our systems business is largely dependent on us and third parties arranging financing from various sources, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts. The construction of our large utility-scale solar power projects under development by us is expected in many cases to require project financing, including non-recourse project debt financing in the bank loan market and institutional debt capital markets. Uncertainties exist as to whether our projects will be able to access the debt markets in a sufficient magnitude to finance their construction. If we are unable to arrange such financing or if it is only available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to fully execute our systems business plan. In addition, we generally expect to sell our projects by raising project equity capital from tax oriented, strategic industry and other equity investors. Such equity sources may not be available or may only be available in insufficient amounts, in which case our ability to sell our projects may be delayed or limited and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, for projects in which we provide EPC services but are not the project developer, our EPC activities are in many cases dependent on the ability of third parties to purchase our PV plant projects, which, in turn, is dependent on their ability to obtain financing for such purchases. Depending on prevailing conditions in the credit markets and other factors, such financing may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts. If third parties are limited in their ability to access financing to support their purchase of PV power plant projects from us, we may not realize the cash flows that we expect from such sales, and this could adversely affect our ability to invest in our business and/or generate revenue. See also the risk factor above entitled “An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic modules.” Developing solar power projects may require significant upfront investment prior to the signing of a power purchase agreement or an EPC contract, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of land and the commercial operation of a PV power plant project, vary substantially and can take many months or years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles, we may need to make significant upfront investments of resources (including, for example, large transmission deposits or other payments, which may be non-refundable) in advance of the signing of PPAs and EPC contracts and the receipt of any revenue, much of which is not recognized for several additional months or years following contract signing. Our potential inability to enter into sales contracts with potential customers after making such upfront investments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our liquidity may be adversely affected to the extent the project sale market weakens and we are unable to sell our solar projects on pricing, terms and timing commercially acceptable to us. Other Risks We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. In April 2009, we acquired the solar power project development business of OptiSolar Inc. and in the future, we may acquire additional companies, project pipelines, products or technologies or enter into joint ventures or other strategic initiatives. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include the following: · difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; Page 25 · difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; · difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; · disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and associates from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; · difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information and other administrative systems; · inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; · inability to retain key customers, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; · inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; · incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · potential impairment of our relationships with our associates, customers, partners, distributors or third party providers of technology or products; · potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development or legal and financial liabilities, among other things; · potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; · potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and · potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key associates and to successfully integrate them into our management team. We are dependent on the services of Michael J. Ahearn, our Executive Chairman, Robert J. Gillette, our Chief Executive Officer, Bruce Sohn, our President, Jens Meyerhoff, our Chief Financial Officer, Mary Beth Gustafsson, our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Carol Campbell, our Executive Vice President, Human Resources, TK Kallenbach, our Executive Vice President, Marketing and Product Management, David Eaglesham, our Chief Technology Officer, and James Zhu, our Chief Accounting Officer and other members of our senior management team. The loss of Ahearn, Gillette, Sohn, Meyerhoff, Gustafsson, Campbell, Kallenbach, Eaglesham, Zhu or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these key associates. Several of our current key associates, including Ahearn, Gillette, Sohn, Meyerhoff, Gustafsson, Campbell, Kallenbach, Eaglesham and Zhu are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice and the enforceability of the non-competition provisions is uncertain. Page 26 If we are unable to attract, train and retain key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain management, operations and technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the photovoltaic industry and thin film technology, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technology. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to photovoltaic technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our solar module, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution of such litigation. Currency translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales and gross margins and could result in exchange losses. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject to currency translation and transaction risk. For example, 86% and 95% of our net sales were denominated in euro for the years ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, respectively, and we expect a large percentage of our net sales to be outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, our operating expenses for our plants located outside the U.S. (currently Germany and Malaysia) and our operations for our systems business in Canada and other European countries will be denominated in the local currency. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange gains or losses. For example, the weakening of the euro reduced our net sales by $116.1 million during fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from our reporting currency. For example, our European Long-Term Supply Contracts specify fixed pricing in euros through 2012 and do not adjust for changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to increase. Our ability to hedge foreign currency exposure is dependent on our credit profile with the banks that are willing and able to do business with us. Deterioration in our credit position or a significant tightening of the credit market conditions could limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposure; and therefore, result in exchange losses. The Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have significant control over us and their interests may conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders. Our largest stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates, including JCL Holdings, LLC and JTW Trust No. 1 UAD 9/19/02 (collectively, the Estate), owned approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock at December 31, 2009. As a result, the Estate has substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of the Estate could conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination which a majority of stockholders may view favorably. If our goodwill, investment in a related party or project assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements should we determine that our goodwill, investment in a related party or project assets are impaired. Such a charge might have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. Page 27 As required by accounting rules, we review our goodwill, investment in a related party and project assets for impairment when events or changes in our business or circumstances indicate that their fair value might be less than their carrying value. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill might not be recoverable include a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in projections of future cash flows and significantly slower growth rates in our industry. We are also required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually. We would write down project assets, which are capitalized on the balance sheet for certain solar power projects, should we determine that the project is not commercially viable. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of a new U.S. tax legislation or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. We are subject to potential tax examinations in these various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other tax positions and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these potential examinations, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of examinations could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, loss of our Malaysian tax holiday, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with tax holidays or differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In addition, President Obama's administration has recently announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. Any of these changes could affect our results of operations. Our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, and obtain additional financing, if needed, because our revolving credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase and our Malaysian facility agreement contain, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; · create liens; · enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; · sell certain assets; and · declare or pay dividends, make other distributions to stockholders or make other restricted payments. Under our revolving credit facility with JPMorgan Chase and our Malaysian facility agreement, we are also subject to certain financial condition covenants. Our ability to comply with covenants under our credit agreements is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements and any of our other future debt agreements, which could permit the holders thereof to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may in the future not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 28 