Item 1A: Risk Factors An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before buying shares of our stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Markets and Customers If PV technology is not suitable for widespr ead adoption at economically attractive rates of return, or if sufficient demand for solar modules does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales and profit may flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if demand for solar modules fails to develop sufficiently or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets & mdash; including Germany, Italy, Spain, France, the United States, Canada, India, China, and Australia — may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for solar modules, including the following: • cost-effectiveness of the electricity generated by PV power systems compared to conventional energy sources and products, including conventional energy sources, such as natural gas and coal, and other non - -solar renewable energy sources, such as wind; • availability, substance, and magnitude of government subsidies, incentives, and renewable portfolio standards to accelerate the development of the solar energy industry; • performance and reliability of PV systems and thin-film technology compared to conventional and other non-solar 13 renewable energy sources and products; • success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, tidal, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated PV, and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the price of, and demand for, conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of natural gas, coal, oil, and other fossil fuels; and • fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules, which tend to decrease when the economy slows and when interest rates increase. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, including potential 2011 mid-year feed-in-tariff reductions in Germany and certain other core markets, could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results. We believe that the near-term growth of the m arket for on-grid applications, where solar energy is used to supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the utility network, depends significantly on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Federal, state, and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, France, the United States, Canada, China, India, and Australia have provided subsidies in the form of FiT, rebates, tax incentives, and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators, and manufacturers of PV products. Many of these jurisdictions, including the majority of U.S. states and numerous European Union countries, have adopted renewable portfolio standards in which the government requires jurisdictions or regulated utilities to supply a portion of their total electricity from specified sources of renewable energy, such as solar, wind, and hydroelectric power. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, require renewal by the applic able authority, or may be amended. In light of strong 2010 solar growth, the major European governments are currently seeking to balance subsidy burdens with their commitment to the EU directive's goal of a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in the EU by 2020. A summary of recent developments in the major government subsidy programs in our core markets appears under Item 1: "Business - Support Programs." We expect the FiT in Germany and certain other core markets to be reduced earlier than previously expected, and such reductions could reduce demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results. Currently, Germany, which accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales in 2010, is the largest market for our modules, and thus recently proposed changes to German feed-in tariffs could significantly impact our results of operations. The German government is expected to adopt a partial acceleration of the January 2012 FiT digression to mid-2011. Such a reduction in the German FiT, including any potential further reductions, may contribute to a short-term pull-in of demand but could negatively affect long-term demand and price levels for PV products in Germany, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.&nbsp ;In France, the government suspended the FiT legislation by decree for three months in December 2010. Although a new decree introducing a new market support framework is expected to be adopted by the government during the first quarter of 2011, we cannot be certain that such market support framework will be adopted at all or adopted at meaningful levels. If the level of such new market support framework is not adequate to promote the development of the PV industry or PV projects in France, our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in France would be adversely affected. As a result of the moratorium, we have put the construction of our Blanquefort, France manufacturing plant on hold until we have greater clarity about the future of the French market. In Italy and Spain, we cannot be certain that the level of FiTs will be adequate to promote the development of the PV industry or PV projects in these countries, in which case our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in these countries would be adversely affected. These expansion strategies could be further adversely affected to the extent of any acceleration or imposition of FiT reductions, caps, or other limitations in these countries. In the United States, California has been the state where the majority of solar installations and solar power module and system sales have taken place in recent years. The sta te of California’s RPS goal of 33% of electricity from renewable sources by 2020, currently in the form of an executive order from the Governor’s office, is the most significant RPS program in the United States in magnitude and is contributing to the expansion of the utility-scale solar systems market in that state. However, the continued effectiveness of this RPS program could be negatively impacted if the RPS goal is not passed by the California legislature and signed into law. See Item 1A: "Risk Factors — Our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in California beyond existing projects may be adversely affected if California is unable to achieve a 33% renewable mandate through law,” below.14 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) and the 2010 Tax Act provide for certain measures intended to benefit on-grid solar electricity generation and other renewable energy initiatives. The failure to further extend or enhance these programs may reduce tax equity availability (in the case of the grant expiration) which may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing for utility-scale projects and may otherwise adversely affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar market. In Ontario, Canada, a FiT program was introduced in September 2009 and replaced the Renewable Energy Standard Offer Program (RESOP) as the primary subsidy program for renewable energy projects. In order to participate in the Ontario FiT program, certain provisions relating to minimum required domestic content and agricultural land use restrictions for solar installations must be satisfied. The domestic content and land restriction rules do not apply to our solar projects governed by RESOP contracts. However, PV solar power systems incorporating our modules do not presently satisfy the domestic content requirement under the FiT program currently in effect, and thus projects incorporating our modules would not qualify for the Ontario FiT. In the event the Ontario domestic content and land use restriction rules are not sufficiently modified, our ability to participate in the Ontario FiT program for future projects beyond our existing RESOP pro jects will be substantially reduced and possibly completely eliminated, and thus our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in Ontario, Canada beyond our existing RESOP projects would be adversely affected. In Australia, the solar industry is driven by several regulatory initiatives that support the installation of solar PV modules in both rooftop and free field applications, including the federal government's Solar Flagship Program, state FiTs and the nationwide Renewable Energy Target Scheme, which has set a renewable energy goal for Australia of 20% by 2020. If such programs or other initiatives are not successfully executed in addressing Australia's renewable energy goals, the size and attractiveness of Australia's solar market may b e limited and we may be unable to sell modules or systems in Australia at an attractive price, limiting one of our anticipated growth markets. In China, governmental authorities have not adopted a FiT policy and currently award solar projects through either a project tendering process or bi-lateral negotiations. While the solar industry generally anticipates that China will adopt a solar FiT, there is no guarantee this will occur in a timely manner or at all or that any FiT will be economically viable. Without a FiT, the size and attractiveness of China’s solar market may be limited, the viability of our proposed Ordos project may be negatively impacted and we may be otherwise unable to sell into China at an attractive price, limiting one of ou r anticipated growth markets. In India, the National Solar Mission includes a goal of installing 22 GW of solar by 2022. India has announced a FiT for the first phase of the National Solar Mission in 2010. There is no guarantee that India will maintain its current goal of 22 GW by 2022 or adopt the required policies to meet that goal, without which, the size and attractiveness of India’s solar market may be limited and we may be unable to sell modules or systems in India at an attractive price, limiting one of our anticipated growth markets. < /font>Emerging subsidy programs may require an extended period of time to attain effectiveness because the applicable permitting and grid connection processes associated with these programs can be lengthy and administratively burdensome. In addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to be unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other reasons, sales prices and/or volumes of our solar modules in these countries could decline significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could limit our growth or cause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to pursue an expansion strategy in California beyond existing projects may be adversely affected if California is unable to achieve a 33% renewable mandate through law. California required its investor-owned utilities (IOUs) to procure 20% of their electricity supplies through eligible renewable energy resources by 2010. In addition, California, through executive order has established a utility procurement goal of 33% renewable electricity by 2020. However, since the 33% procurement of renewable electricity by 2020 goal is currently not enforceable through law, it is conceivable that renewable energy procurement in California could peak at a level below 33% of the IOU’s electricity retail sales if the 33% renewable mandate is not signed into law. If the state legislature and Governor’s office are unable to adopt legislation establishing the 33% renewable energy mandate, the viability of the 33% RPS program would remain at risk. In addition, any weakening or delay of the 33% RPS program could contribute to, or be accompanied by, increased project execution risks, delay, or costs relating to California authorities, such as the California Independent System Operator. 15 Under such a scenario, our ability to execute a long-term expansion plan to develop additional large-scale PV projects in California could be adversely affected. An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules. Many of our customers and our systems business depend on debt and/or equity financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to develop, build and purchase a PV system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates, or a reduction in the supply of project debt financing or tax equity investments, could reduce t he number of solar projects that receive financing or otherwise make it difficult for our customers or our systems business to secure the financing necessary to develop, build, purchase or install a PV system on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar modules which could limit our growth or reduce our net sales. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install PV systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an investor's return on investment in a PV system, increase equity return requirements or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. As described above under Item 1: "Business — Support Programs,” the 30% grant in lieu of the federal investment tax credit under the ARRA is set to expire and unless extended, will not be available for solar installations that begin construction on or after January 1, 2012. If such program is not extended, total tax equity availability could be reduced which may adversely affect our ability to arrange financing for utility-scale projects and may adversely affect the attractiveness of the U.S. solar market. We currently sell a substantial portion of our solar modules under Supply Contracts, and we allocate a significant amount of our production to satisfy our obligations under these contracts. These customers buy our modules with the expectation that they will be able to resell them in connection with the development of PV systems. As discussed above, many of these projects depend on the availability of debt and equity financing. A prolonged , material disruption to the supply of project finance could adversely affect our customers’ ability to perform under these agreements. In the event of default by one or more of these customers, we may be unable to sell these modules at the prices specified in our Supply Contracts, especially if demand for PV systems softens or supply of solar modules increases. Also, we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain customers in certain markets in response to changes in economic circumstances of our customers, their end markets, or the capital markets. See Item 1: "Business — Segment Information — Components Business — Customers,” for a description of previous pricing adjustments under our Supply Contracts. We currently depend on a limited number of customers, with three customers accounting for a majority of our components business’ net sales last year. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers could significantly reduce our net sales and negatively impact our operating results. We currently sell the majority of our solar modules to customers headquartered throughout the European Union. During 2 010, our three largest customers for our components business each accounted for between 10% and 20% of our components business’ net sales. Our customer base within our components business is currently concentrated to a significant extent in Germany and, therefore, additional German FiT reductions could reduce demand and/or price levels for our modules sold to these customers. The loss of any of our large customers, their inability to perform under their contracts, or their default in payment could significantly reduce our net sales and adversely impact our operating results. Our customers may face significant challenges under current economic conditions, including lack of capital to finance solar projects and rising costs associated with leasing or otherwise acquiring land and rooftops for solar projects. We believe that we can mitigate this risk by re-allocating modules to other customers if the need arises, but we may be unable, in whole or in part, to mitigate the reduced demand for our modules. In the event that we determine that our planned production of solar modules exceeds the demand we anticipate, we may decide to reduce or halt production of solar modules in our manufacturing facilities. However, we may be unable to anticipate and respond to the oversupply of solar modules because we have limited visibility into our customers’ inventories. Risks Related to Regulations Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory, and economic barriers to the purchase and use of PV products, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar modules. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state, and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and pol icies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of PV products and investment in the research and 16 development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fee s for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. If these interconnection standby fees were applicable to PV systems, it is likely that they would increase the cost to our end-users of using PV systems which could make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by PV systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate for all times of the day, would require PV systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from other sources. We anticipate that our solar mod ules and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering, and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to us, our resellers, and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar modules. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows, and profitability. Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation, and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local, and international levels. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, and occupational health and safety. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may r esult in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs, or other costs. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, our products contain cadmium telluride and cadmium sulfide. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are regulated as hazardous material due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. Although the risks of exposure to cadmium telluride are not believed to be as serious as those relating to exposure to elemental cadmium, the chemical, physical, and toxicological properties of cadmium telluride have not been thoroughly investigated and reported. In our manufacturing operations, we maintain engineering controls to minimize our associates’ exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds and require our associates who handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures, including the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles, and protective clothing. In addition, we believe the risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our end-products is limited by the encapsulated nature of these materials in our products and the physical properties of cadmium compounds used in our products, and further minimized by the voluntary implementation in 200 5 of our collection and recycling program for our solar modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are sufficient to protect our associates, end-users, and the general public from adverse health effects that may arise from cadmium exposure, we cannot assure that human or environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in future third party claims against us, as well as damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our products, which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute our products. The occurrence of future events such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The use of cad mium in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Future regulation in this area could impact the manufacture, sale, collection, and recycling of solar modules and could require us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures or limit our ability to sell and distribute our products. For example, European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS Directive), restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including cadmium, in specified products. Other jurisdictions, such as China have adopted similar legislation or are considering doing so. Currently, PV solar modules are not subject to the RoHS Directive; however, the RoHS Directive allows for future amendments subjecting additional products to the requirements and the scope. Applicability and the products included in the Directive may also change. In December 2008, the European Commission issued its proposed revision of t he RoHS Directive. This proposed revision did not include PV solar modules in the scope of RoHS. In November 2010, the European Parliament, European Commission and European Council agreed on a revised RoHS Directive under which all Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EEE) are included in the scope of the RoHS Directive unless specifically excluded or exempted from coverage. PV is explicitly excluded from the scope of RoHS (Article 2). The European Parliament formally adopted the agreement 17 in November 2010 and the Council is expected to formally adopt the agreement in the first half of 2011. Nevertheless, if PV modules are included in the scope of RoHS without an exemption or exclusion, we would be required to redesign our solar modules to eliminate cadmium in order to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union, which would be impractical. In such event, the European Union market would be in effect closed to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In 2010, 74% of our total net sales were generated from module sales in the European Union. Risk s Related to our Operations, Manufacturing, and Technology Our operating history to date may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. Our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance, and prospects. While our net sales grew from $135.0 million in 2006 to nearly $2.6 billion in 2010, we may be unable to achieve similar growth, or grow at all, in future periods. Our ability to achieve similar growth in future periods is also affected by current economic conditions. Our past results occurred in an environment where, among other things, capital was generally more accessible to our customers to finance the cost of developing solar projects and economic incentives for solar power in certain core markets (such as the German FiT) were more favorable. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior period as an indication of our future performance. See Item 1: "Business — Segment Information — Components Business — Customers,” for a description of previous pricing adjustments under our Supply Contracts. We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules, thin-film solar modules, and solar thermal and concentrated PV systems; if global supply exceeds global demand, it could lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. The solar energy and renewable energy industries are highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. Within the global PV industry, we face competition from crystalline silicon solar module manufacturers, other thin-film solar module manufacturers and companies developing solar thermal and concentrated PV technologies. Existing or future solar manufacturers might be acquired by larger companies with significant capital resources, thereby intensifying competition with us. In addition, the introduction of a low cost disruptive technology could adversely affect our ability to compete, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Even if deman d for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid expansion plans of many solar module manufacturers could create periods where supply exceeds demand. In addition, we believe a significant decrease in the cost of silicon feedstock would provide significant reductions in the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules and lead to pricing pressure for solar modules and potentially the oversupply of solar modules. During any such period, our competitors could decide to reduce their sales prices in response to competition, even below their manufacturing costs, in order to generate sales. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our net sa les and adversely affect our results of operations. Also, we may decide to lower our average selling price to certain customers in certain markets in response to competition. Thin-film technology has a short history, and our thin-film technology and solar modules and systems may perform below expectations; problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. Researchers began developing thin-film semiconductor technology over 20 years ago, but were unable to integrate the technology into a solar module production line until several years ago. Our thin-film technology and solar modules may not have a sufficient operating history to confirm how our solar modules will perform over their estimated 25-year useful life. We perform a variety of quality and life tests under different conditions. However, if our thin-film technology and solar modules perform below expectations, we could lose customers and face substantial warranty expense. Our solar modules are sold with a five-year materials and workmanship warranty for technical defects and a 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10% of their initial rated power in the first 10 years following their installation and 20% of initial rated power in the following 15 years, respectively. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. As of December 31, 2010, our accrued warranty liability was $27.9 million, of which, $11.2 million was classified as current and $16.7 million was classified as noncurrent. 18 Although our power output warranty extends for 25 years, our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001. Because of the limited operating history of our solar modules, we have been required to make assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our solar modules. Our assumptions could prove to be material ly different from the actual performance of our solar modules, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules in the future. For example, our glass-on-glass solar modules could break, delaminate, or experience power degradation in excess of expectations, and our manufacturing operations could be subject to process variations that could cause affected modules to underperform compared to our expectations. Any widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline and require us to repair or replace the defective modules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition to our solar module warranty described above, for solar power plants built by our EPC team, we currently typically provide a limited EPC warranty against defects in workmanship, engineering design, and installation services under normal use and service conditions for a period of one year following the substantial completion of a solar power plant or an energized section of a solar power plant. In resolving claims under both the workmanship and design warranties, we have the option of either remedying the defect to the warranted level through repair, refurbishment, or replacement. Any widespread failures of solar power plants built by us could damage our market reputation, cause our sales to decline, cause us to incur unexpected costs to remedy defects or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. If our estimates regarding the future cost of collecting and recycling our solar modules are incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and face a significant unplanned cash burden. We pre-fund our estimated future obligation for collecting and recycling our solar modules based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and recycling the modules, which includes the cost of packaging the solar modules for transport, the cost of freight from the solar module’s installation site to a recycling center, the material, labor, and capital costs of the recycling process, and an estimated third party profit margin and return on risk for collection a nd recycling. We base our estimate on our experience collecting and recycling solar modules that do not pass our quality control tests and solar modules returned under our warranty, and on our expectations about future developments in recycling technologies and processes and economic conditions at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses at and from the time we realize our estimates are incorrect and also face a significant unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end-users return their solar modules, which could harm our operating results. In addition, our end-users can return their solar modules at any time. As a result, we could be required to collect and recycle our solar modules earlier than we expect. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV products could render our solar modules or systems uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share. We need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to continue to improve our module conversion efficiency, lower the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) of our PV systems, and otherwise keep pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. We seek to contin uously improve our products and processes, and the resulting changes carry potential risks in the form of delays, additional costs, or other unintended contingencies. In addition, our significant expenditures on research and development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are developing a variety of competing PV technologies, including copper indium gallium diselenide and amorphous silicon, which could produce solar modules or systems that prove more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar modules or systems. In addition, other companies could potentially develop a highly reliable renewable energy system that mitigates the intermittent power production drawback of many renewable energy systems, or offers other value-added improvements from the perspective of utilities and other system owners, in which case such companies could compete with us even if the LCOE associated with such new system is higher than that of our systems. As a result, our solar modules or systems may be negatively differentiated or rendered obsolete by the technological advances of our competitors, which would reduce our net sales, profitability and/or market share. In addition, we often forward price our products and services (including through our Supply Contracts and power purchase agreements) in anticipation of future cost reductions, and thus an inability to further refine our technology and execute our long-term manufacturing cost and LCOE reduction objectives could adversely affect our margins and operating results. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods, and other technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect and 19 monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. We regularly file patent applications to protect inventions arising from our research and development, and are currently pursuing such patent applications in the U.S. and worldwide. Our existing patents and future patents could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered unenforceable. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation, and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our associates and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets, and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods, and compounds could have a material adver se effect on our business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into which we may expand our operations. In some countries we have not applied for patent, trademark, or copyright protection. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation may impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects, and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. Some of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of third party suppliers and their failure to perform cou ld cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity, and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing cost. Some of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of third party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, some of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials and components as we continue to expand rapidly. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. A constraint on our production may cause us to be unable to meet our capacity ramp plan and/or our obligations under our customer contracts, which would have an adverse impact on our financial results. A disruption in our supply chain for cadmium telluride, our semiconductor material, could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture solar modules. A key raw material we use in our production process is a cadmium telluride compound. Tellurium, one of the main components of cadmium telluride, is mainly produced as a by-product of copper refining and, therefore, its supply is largely dependent upon demand for copper. Our supply of cadmium telluride could be limited if any of our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers are unable to acquire an adequate supply of tellurium in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our competitors begin to use or increase their demand for cadmium telluride, supply could be reduced and prices could increase. If our current suppliers or any of our future suppliers cannot obtain sufficient tellurium, they could substantially increase prices or be unable to perform under their contracts. We may be unable to pass increases in the cost of our raw materials through to our customers because our customer contracts d o not adjust for raw material price increases and are generally for a longer term than our raw material supply contracts. A reduction in our production could result in our inability to meet our capacity ramp plan and/or our commitments under our customer contracts, which would have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to build new manufacturing plants and add production lines in a cost-effective manner, both of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our manufacturing capacity and production throughput 20 in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we cannot do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our manufacturing cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy our contractual obligations, or sustain profitability. Our ability to expand production capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: • making changes to our production process that are not properly qualified or that may cause problems with the quality of our solar modules; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability to secure successful contracts with equipment vendors; • our custom-built equipment taking longer and costing more to manufacture than expected and not operating as designed; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • being unable to hire qualified staff; • failure to execute our expansion plans effectively; and • manufacturing concentration risk resulting from an expected 24 out of 46 announced production lines worldwide by the end of 2012 being located in one geographic area, Malaysia. If our future production lines are not built in line with our committed schedules it may impair our growth plans. If our future production lines do not achieve operat ing metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers. Currently, our production lines have a limited history of operating at full capacity. Future production lines could produce solar modules that have lower efficiencies, higher failure rates, and higher rates of degradation than solar modules from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to determine the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement solutions to improve performance. Although we will be using the same systematic replication process to build our U.S., Vietnamese, and French manufacturing centers and expand our German and Malaysian manufacturing centers that we successfully used when previously building and expanding our existing German and Malaysian production facilities, our replication risk in connection with building production lines at our manufacturing centers and other future manufacturing plants could be higher than our replication risk was in building and expanding our existing German and Malaysian production facilities because these new manufacturing centers will be located in new geographic areas for us, which could entail other factors that may lower their operating metrics. If we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines to meet our committed schedules and achieve and sustain similar operating metrics in our future production lines as we have achieved at our existing production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained, our manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and this may impair our growth plans and/or cause us to lose customers, resulting in lower net sales, higher liabilities, and lower net income than we anticipate. In addition, we might be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our customer contracts. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced. If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our contractual requirements. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our production lines based on designs or specificatio ns that we provide to the equipment manufacturer, which then undertakes a specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production line could be interrupted and we could be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our Supply Contracts. In addition, the failure of our equipment suppliers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our financial results. If we are unable to further increase the number of sellable watts per solar module and reduce our manufacturing cost per watt, we could be in default under certain of our Supply Contracts and our profitability could decline. Our Supply Contracts either (i) require us to increase the minimum average number of watts per module over the term of the contract, or (ii) have a price adjustment for increases or decreases in the number of watts per module relative to a base number of 21 watts per module. Our failure to achieve these metrics could reduce our profitability or allow some of our customers to terminate their contracts. In addition, all of our Supply Contracts in Europe specify a sales price per watt that declines at the beginning of each year through the expiration date of each contract in 2012. Our profitability could decline if we are unable to reduce our manufacturing cost per watt by at least the same rate at which our contractual prices decrease. Furthermore, our failure to reduce cost per watt by increasing our efficiency may impair our ability to enter new markets that we believe will require lower cost per watt for us to be competitive and may impair our growth plans. We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations effectively. We expect to continue to expand our business in order to meet our contractual obligations, satisfy demand for our solar modules, and maintain or increase market share. However, depending on the amount of additional contractual obligations we enter into and our ability to expand our manufacturing capabilities in accordance with our expectations, we might be unable to produce enough solar modules to satisfy our contractual requirements under our customer contracts and other com mitments, in which case we could be in default under such agreements and our operating results may be adversely affected. To manage the continued rapid expansion of our operations, we will be required to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train, and manage our growing associate base. Our management will also be required to maintain and expand our relationships with customers, suppliers, and other third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, and internal controls and procedures might be inadequate to support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, exe cute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. Implementing a new enterprise resource planning system could interfere with our business or operations and could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. Phase 1 of this implementation was completed in the second half of 2010, and the second and final phase of this implementation is expected to be completed in the second half of 2011. This project requires significant investment of capital and human resources, the re-engineering of many processes of our business, and the attention of many associates and managers who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. Any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated and could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, file SEC reports in a timely manner and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls environment, and any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in foreign countries. We have significant marketing, distribution, and manufacturing operations both within and outside the United States. In 2010, 74% of our net sales were generated from customers h eadquartered in the European Union. In the future, we expect to expand our operations into China, India, and other countries in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and elsewhere; as a result, we will be subject to the legal, political, social, tax, and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: • difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems;< div style="line-height:120%;padding-left:4px;"> • varying degrees of protection afforded to foreign investments in the countries in which we operate, and irregular interpretations and enforcement of laws and regulations in these jurisdictions; • foreign countries may impose additional income and withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign operations, impose tariffs, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the extent the price of our solar modules and cost of raw materials, labor, and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency; • inability to obtain, maintain, or enforce intellectual property rights; • risk of nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises;22 • changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in the government incentives we are relying on; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties, and quotas; • opaque approval processes in which the lack of transparency may cause delays and increase the uncertainty of project approvals; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • difficulty in repatriating earnings; • difficulty in negotiating a successful collective bargaining agreement in applicable foreign jurisdictions; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes, local content requirements, and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the price of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some countries; and • difficulty of, and costs relating to, compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas countries in which we offer and sell our solar modules. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social, and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Risks Related to Our Systems Business Project development or construction activities may not be successful and projects under development may not receive required permits or construction may not commence as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. The development and construction of solar power electric generation facilities and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses be fore we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: • negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement, and construction agreements; • receipt of required governmental permits and approvals, including the right to interconnect to the electric grid; • payment of interconnection and other deposits (some of which are non - -refundable); • obtaining construction financing; and • timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • delays in obtaining required governmental permits and approvals; • uncertainties relating to land costs for projects on land subject to Bureau of Land Management procedures; • unforeseen engineering problems; • construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; • work stoppages;23 < /tr>• cost over-runs; • labor, equipment and materials supply shortages or disruptions; • tax treatment; • adverse weather conditions; and • environmental and geological conditions. If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power facility, or fail to meet one or more agreed target construction milestone dates, we may be subject to li quidated damages and/or penalties under the EPC agreement or other agreements relating to the project, and we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. Some of these investments are included as assets on our consolidated balance sheet under the line item “Project assets.” If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power project, we may write-down or write-off some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized. In 2011, we expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop projects owned by us or third parties. We may enter into fixed price EPC contracts in which we act as the general contractor for our customer s in connection with the installation of our solar power systems. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into the EPC contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the overall price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the subcontractors, suppliers, and other parties to the project. In addition, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project occur (including those due to unexpected increases in inflation or commodity prices) or delays in execution occur and we are unable to increase commensurately the EPC sales price, we may not achieve our expected margins or we may be required to record a loss in the relevant fiscal period. We may be unable to acquire or lease land and/or obtain the approvals, licenses, and permits necessary to build and operate PV power plants in a timely and cost effective manner, and regulatory agencies, local communities, labor unions or other third parties may delay, prevent, or increase the cost of construction and operation of the PV plants we intend to build. In order to construct and operate our PV plants, we need to acquire or lease land and obtain all necessary local, county, state, federal, and foreign approvals, licenses, and permits. We may be unable t o acquire the land or lease interests needed, may not receive or retain the requisite approvals, permits, and licenses, or may encounter other problems which could delay or prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants. For instance, the California Independent System Operator has modified its transmission interconnection rules, phasing out a serial process in favor of a cluster process for new projects, and may further modify its rules in a manner that could negatively impact our favorable position in transmission queues. Certain of our California projects under development will remain subject to the serial process while other projects in earlier stages of development, as well as new projects on a going-forward basis, will be subject to the cluster process. Although the transition to the cluster process is still evolving and its ultimate impact is not yet fully known, our project transmission cost could be materially higher than previously estimated under the serial process and our projects could be delayed or subject to transmission planning timing uncertainties. We also may be required to post interconnection deposits (which may not be refundable) sooner than previously estimated under the serial process. Many of our proposed PV plants are located on or require access through public lands administered by federal and state agencies pursuant to competitive public leasing and right-of-way procedures and processes. The authorization for the use, construction, and operation of PV plants and associated transmission facilities on federal, state, and private lands will also require the assessment and evaluation of mineral rights, private rights-of-way, and other easements; environmental, agricultural, cultural, recreational, and aesthetic imp acts; and the likely mitigation of adverse impacts to these and other resources and uses. The inability to obtain the required permits and, potentially, excessive delay in obtaining such permits due, for example, to litigation or third party appeals, could prevent us from successfully constructing and operating PV plants in a timely manner and could result in a potential forfeiture of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. Moreover, project approvals subject to project modifications and conditions, including mitigation requirements and costs, could affect the financial success of a given project. In addition, local labor unions may increase the cost of, and/or lower the productivity of, project development in Canada, California, and elsewhere. We may also be subject to labor unavailability and/or increased union labor requirements due to multiple simultaneous projects in a geographic region24 In China our projects are subject to a number of government approvals, including the approval of a pre-feasibility and feasibility study. Individually, the pre-feasibility and feasibility study require many different government approvals at the national, provincial, and local levels, and th e approval process is discretionary and not fully transparent. Lack of transmission capacity availability, potential upgrade costs to the transmission grid, and other systems constraints could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity power sales. In order to deliver electricity from our PV plants to our customers, our projects need to connect to the transmission grid. The lack of available capacity on the transmission grid could substantially impact our projects and cause reductions in project size, delays in project implementation, increases in costs from transmission upgrades, and potential forfeitures of any deposit we have made with respect to a given project. These transmission issues, as well as issues relating to the availability of large systems such as transformers and switch gear, could significantly impact our ability to build PV plants and generate solar electricity sales. Our systems business is largely dependent on us and third parties arranging financing from various sources, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficie nt amounts. The construction of the large utility-scale solar power projects under development by us is expected in many cases to require project financing, including non-recourse project debt financing in the bank loan market and institutional debt capital markets. Uncertainties exist as to whether our projects will be able to access the debt markets in a sufficient magnitude to finance their construction. If we are unable to arrange such financing or if it is only available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to fully execute our systems business plan. In addition, we generally expect to sell our projects by raising project equity capital from tax oriented, strategic industry, and other equity investors. Such equi ty sources may not be available or may only be available in insufficient amounts, in which case our ability to sell our projects may be delayed or limited and our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, for projects in which we provide EPC services but are not the project developer, our EPC activities are in many cases dependent on the ability of third parties to purchase our PV plant projects, which, in turn, is dependent on their ability to obtain financing for such purchases. Depending on prevailing conditions in the credit markets and other factors, such financing may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms or in insufficient amounts. If third parties are limited in their ability to access financing to support their purchase of PV power plant projects from us, we may not realize the cash flows that we expect from such sales, and this could adversely affect our ability to invest in our business and/or generate revenue. See also the risk factor above entitled "An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for PV modules.” Developing solar power projects may require significant upfront investment prior to the signing of a power purchase agreement or an EPC contract, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of land and the commercial operation of a PV power plant project, vary substantially and can take many months or years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles, we may need to make significant upfront investments of resources (including, for example, large transmiss ion deposits or other payments, which may be non-refundable) in advance of the signing of PPAs and EPC contracts and the receipt of any revenue, much of which is not recognized for several additional months or years following contract signing. Our potential inability to enter into sales contracts with potential customers after making such upfront investments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our liquidity may be adversely affected to the extent the project sale market weakens and we are unable to sell our solar projects on pricing, terms and timing commercially acceptable to us. Other Risks We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We have made several acquisitions in the last several years, and in the future we may acquire additional companies, project pipelines, products, or technologies or enter into joint ventures or other strategic initiatives. We may not real ize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include the following:25 • difficulty in assimilating the operat ions and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures, and policies during the transition and integration; • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and associates from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; • difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, and other administrative systems; • inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired business; • inability to retain key customers, vendors, and other business partners of the acquired business; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • in curring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; • potential impairment of our relationships with our associates, customers, partners, distributors, or third party providers of technology or products; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture, and development or legal and financial liabilities, among other things; • potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; • potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; and • potential delay in customer purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, finan cial condition, or results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key associates and to successfully integrate them into our management team. We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of these key associates or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to retain or replace these key associates, and we may not have adequate succession plans in place. Several of our current key associates including our executive officers are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice and the enforceability of the non-competition provisions is uncertain. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train, and retain management, operations, and technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the PV industry and thin-film technology, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, or otherwise experience labor disruptions our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined ad versely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technology.26 Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex scientific, l egal, and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our solar module, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customer s deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution of such litigation. Currency translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales, and gross margins and could result in exchange losses. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject to currency translation and transaction risk. For example , 73% and 86% of our net sales were denominated in euro for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 26, 2009, respectively, and we expect a large percentage of our net sales to be outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, our operating expenses for our manufacturing plants located outside the U.S. (currently Germany and Malaysia, and Vietnam and France in the future) and our operations for our systems business in European countries and Canada will be denominated in the local currency. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange gains or losses. For example, the weakening of the euro reduced our net sales by $49.4 million during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009. In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from our reporting currency. For example, our European Supply Contracts specify fixed pricing in euros through 2012 and do not adjust for changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rate. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our res ults of operations. We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to increase. Our ability to hedge foreign currency exposure is dependent on our credit profile with the banks that are willing and able to do business with us. Deterioration in our credit position or a significant tightening of the credit market conditions could limit our ab ility to hedge our foreign currency exposure; and therefore, result in exchange losses. The Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates have significant control over us and their interests may conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders. Our largest stockholder, the Estate of John T. Walton and its affiliates, including JCL Holdings, LLC and JTW Trust No. 1 UAD 9/19/02 (collectively, the Estate), owned approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock at December 31, 2010. As a result, the Estate has substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of the Estate could conflict with or differ from interests of other stockholders. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the Estate could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover, or other business combination which a majority of stockholders may view favorably. If our goodwill or project assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements should we determine that our goodwill or project assets are impaired. Such a charge might have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. As required by accounting rules, we review our goodwill and project assets for impairment when events or changes in our business or circum stances indicate that their fair value might be less than their carrying value. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill might not be recoverable include a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in projections of future cash flows and significantly slower growth rates in our industry. We are also required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually. We would write down project assets, 27 which are capitalized on the balance shee t for certain solar power projects, should we determine that the project is not commercially viable. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of a new U.S. tax legislation, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, license s, funding, and other items in inter-company transactions. We are subject to potential tax examinations in these various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our inter-company charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other tax positions and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these potential examinations, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of examinations could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income, and cash flows. In addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, loss of our Malaysian tax holiday, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with tax holidays or differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In addition, recently announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation could have a material effect on the results of our operations; if enacted. Our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, and obtain additional financing, if needed, because our revolving credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and our Malaysian facility agreement contain, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; • create liens; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; • sell certain assets; and • declare or pay dividends, make other distributions to stockholders, or make other restricted payments. Under our revolving credit agreement and our Malaysian facility agreement, we are also subject to certain financial condition covenants. Our ability to comply with covenants under our credit agreements is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our contr ol, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under these agreements and any of our other future debt agreements, which if not cured or waived, could permit the holders thereof to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may in the future not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 