Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors could cause our actual business, prospects, financial results or financial condition to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere by management from time to time. In or before the first quarter of 2010, we expect we will need to raise additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. If we do not raise the necessary funds, we may need to cut back or terminate some or all aspects of our operations, which would materially adversely affect our business prospects. Because our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System is complex and will be new to the market and involve significant capital expenditures by customers and a long sales cycle, it is very difficult to predict the actual rate of product sales. We will need additional financing to execute on our current and future business strategies. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure, commercialization, manufacturing and research and development activities. The amount of additional capital we may need to raise depends on many factors, including: •the level of research and development investment required to maintain and improve our technology position; •the amount and growth rate of our revenues; •changes in product development plans needed to address any difficulties in manufacturing or commercializing our Helicos System and enhancements to our system; •the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; •competing technological and market developments; •our need or decision to acquire or license complementary technologies or acquire complementary businesses; and •changes in regulatory policies or laws that affect our operations. The worldwide financial markets are currently experiencing turmoil. These events have materially and adversely impacted the availability of financing to a wide variety of companies, particularly early-stage companies such as Helicos. We do not know whether the additional capital which we will require will be available when and as needed, on favorable terms if at all, or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our 21 Table of Contents operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If our current operating plan including forecasted sales in 2009 does not materialize or if adequate additional funds are not available to us when required, we will be required to further delay, reduce or eliminate research and development programs, reduce or eliminate commercialization efforts, obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others on terms unfavorable to us, or pursue merger or divestiture strategies. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur substantial losses, and might never achieve or maintain profitability. We are a development-stage company with limited operating history. We have incurred significant losses in each fiscal year since our inception, including net losses attributable to common stockholders of $54.9 million and $45.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $139.7 million. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our selling, general and administrative expenses. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we used cash in operating activities of $32.8 million and had capital expenditures totaling $2.2 million. In the year ended December 31, 2008, we used cash in operating activities of $44.3 million and had capital expenditures totaling $2.9 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had $19.7 million in cash. We will need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2008, we had shipped two Helicos™ Genetic Analysis Systems but had not recognized revenue from these initial shipments. Moreover, one of these two systems was returned in 2009. Because our products will be subject to various customer evaluation periods with acceptance criteria, we expect the customer evaluation period and our ability to have any recognizable revenue from additional initial sales, if any, to extend beyond the fiscal quarters in which the products are shipped. Moreover, even after we begin selling our products on a commercial scale, we expect our losses to continue for at least the next two years as a result of ongoing research and development expenses, as well as increased manufacturing, sales and marketing expenses. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders' equity. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development and commercialization efforts, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock will decline. Although we began shipping Helicos™ Genetic Analysis Systems to our initial customers during 2008, we may not be able to successfully scale the manufacturing process necessary to build and test multiple Helicos Genetic Analysis Systems on a full commercial basis, in which event our business would be materially harmed. To ship multiple Helicos Genetic Analysis Systems on a full production scale, we need to continue the testing and performance validation of the system. In order to sustain our commercial launch involving multiple shipments of the Helicos Systems, we need to take other steps to scale the manufacturing process of the system, including improvements to our manufacturing yields and cycle times, manufacturing documentation and quality assurance and quality control procedures. We also need to scale our manufacturing process of the proprietary reagents and disposable supplies that are part of the system. If we are unable to successfully complete these tasks, we may not be able to ship multiple Helicos Systems on a full production scale which would materially harm our business. In 22 Table of Contents addition, although we believe that we have already incurred the substantial majority of the costs related to the development of the initial version of our Helicos System, if we experience unanticipated problems with our initial system placements, these costs could substantially increase, which would materially harm our business. If our technology fails to achieve and sustain sufficient market acceptance, we will not generate expected revenue. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop products that displace current technology, as well as expand the market for genetic analysis to include new applications that are not practical with current technology. To accomplish this, we must develop and successfully commercialize our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System for use in a variety of life science applications. In particular, while our early market focus is on DNA sequencing and gene expression applications, there can be no assurances that we will be successful at inducing potential customers to purchase our Helicos System. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the design of the Helicos System, including the initial specifications and any enhancements or improvements to those specifications, will be satisfactory to potential customers in the markets we seek to reach. These markets are new and emerging and there can be no assurances that they will develop as quickly as we expect or that they will reach their full potential. As a result, we may be required to refocus our marketing efforts from time to time and we may have to make changes to the specifications of our system to enhance our ability to more quickly enter particular markets. There is no guarantee, even if our technology is able to successfully reduce the cost and improve the performance of genetic analysis relative to existing products, that we will be able to induce customers with installed bases of conventional genetic analysis instruments to purchase our systems or to expand the market for genetic analysis to include new applications. Even if we are able to successfully implement our technology, we may fail to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our Helicos System by academic and government research laboratories and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and agriculture companies, among others, across the full range of our intended life science applications. Any such failure would materially harm our future sales and revenue. The price of the HeliScope™ instrument is significantly greater than the instrument cost of current market-leading sequencers, which may adversely affect our ability to penetrate or grow the market for genetic analysis. In addition, if our products are only utilized as a replacement for existing DNA sequencing technology, we may face a much smaller market than we currently anticipate. We are aware of other companies that have developed, or are developing, emerging sequencing technologies. Even if our product demonstrates dramatic cost and throughput improvements over current market-leading technologies, we may fail to achieve market acceptance due to adoption of those emerging technologies by our potential customers, thereby reducing our market opportunity. We have limited experience in selling and marketing and, as a result, may be unable to successfully commercialize our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System. We have limited sales experience and limited marketing experience. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on attracting customers for our Helicos System. Although members of our sales and marketing team have considerable industry experience and have engaged in marketing activities for our Helicos System, in the future we must expand our sales, marketing, distribution and customer support capabilities with the appropriate technical expertise to effectively market our Helicos System. To successfully perform sales, marketing, distribution and customer support functions ourselves, we will face a number of risks, including: •the ability of our remaining limited sales and marketing team to achieve our near term goals following our December 2008 workforce reduction; 23 Table of Contents •our ability to attract, retain and manage the specialized sales, marketing and service force necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our technology; •the time and cost of establishing a specialized sales, marketing and service force for a particular application, which might not be justifiable by the revenues generated by our technology; and •the ability of our specialized sales, marketing and service force to initiate and execute successful commercialization activities. We may seek to enlist one or more third parties to assist with sales, distribution and customer support globally or in certain regions of the world. There is no guarantee, if we do seek to enter into such arrangements, that we will be successful in attracting desirable sales and distribution partners, or that we will be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. If our sales and marketing efforts, or those of any third-party sales and distribution partners, are not successful, our technologies and products may not gain market acceptance, which could materially impact our business operations. If we are unable to timely establish manufacturing capacity by ourselves or with partners, commercialization of our products would be delayed, which would result in lost revenues and harm our business. To commercialize our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System, we need to either build internal manufacturing capacity or contract with one or more manufacturing partners, or both. We currently manufacture our products using a combination of internal manufacturing resources and outsourced components and subassemblies. Although we began to manufacture our instruments, reagents and disposable supplies on a commercial scale during 2008, we have limited the expansion of these capabilities following our December 2008 decision to reduce our operating expenses and conserve cash. We may encounter difficulties in manufacturing our products and, due to the complexity of our technology and our manufacturing process, we cannot be sure we fully understand all of the factors that affect our manufacturing processes or product performance. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to build manufacturing capacity internally or find one or more suitable manufacturing partners, or both, to meet the volume and quality requirements necessary to be successful in the market. Manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates of our Helicos System and associated proprietary reagents and disposable supplies. If our products do not consistently meet our customers' performance expectations, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable. Any delay in establishing or inability to expand our manufacturing capacity could diminish our ability to develop or sell our products, which could result in lost revenue and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future product sales will depend, in part, on research and development spending levels of academic, clinical and governmental research institutions and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and agriculture companies, and any reduction in such spending levels could limit our ability to sell our products. We expect that our revenues in the foreseeable future will be derived primarily from sales of instruments, reagents and disposable supplies to a relatively small number of academic, clinical, governmental and other research institutions and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and agriculture companies that conduct large-scale genetic analyses. Our success will depend upon their demand for and use of our products. Accordingly, the spending policies of these customers could have a significant effect on the demand for our technology. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, policies regarding spending during recessionary periods and changes in the political climate. In addition, especially given recent weakness in the global economy and changing market conditions of our target customers, the academic, governmental and other research institutions that fund research and development activities may be subject to stringent budgetary constraints that could result in 24 Table of Contents spending reductions, reduced allocations or budget cutbacks, which could jeopardize the ability of these customers to purchase our Helicos System. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. For example, reductions in capital expenditures by these customers may result in lower than expected instrument sales and similarly, reductions in operating expenditures by these customers could result in lower than expected sales of reagents and disposable supplies. These reductions and delays may result from factors that are not within our control, such as: •changes in economic conditions; •changes in government programs that provide funding to research institutions and companies; •changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences companies and life sciences research; •market-driven pressures on companies to consolidate and reduce costs; and •other factors affecting research and development spending. Any decrease in our customers' budgets or expenditures or in the size, scope or frequency of capital or operating expenditures as a result of the foregoing or other factors could materially adversely affect our operations or financial condition. If the suppliers we rely on fail to supply the materials we use in the manufacturing of our products, we would be unable to satisfy product demand, which would negatively affect our business. Some components used in the manufacturing of our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System and certain raw materials used in the manufacturing of our reagents and disposable supplies are available from only a few suppliers. We acquire some of these components and raw materials on a purchase-order basis, which means that the supplier is not required to supply us with specified quantities of these components or raw materials over a certain period of time or to set aside part of its inventory for our anticipated requirements. If supplies from these vendors were delayed or interrupted for any reason, we may not be able to manufacture and sell our Helicos System and associated reagents and disposable supplies in a timely fashion or in sufficient quantities or under acceptable terms. Additionally, for certain of these components and raw materials, we currently purchase from sole-source suppliers and have not yet arranged for alternative suppliers. It might be difficult to find alternative suppliers in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to us. Consequently, as we begin our commercialization efforts, if we do not forecast properly, or if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply us in sufficient quantities or on commercially acceptable terms, we might not have access to sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis and might not be able to satisfy product demand. Additionally, if there is concern among potential and existing suppliers about our financial viability, these suppliers may be hesitant to supply components and raw materials under acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, if any of these components and raw materials becomes unavailable in the marketplace, we will be forced to further develop our technologies to incorporate alternate components or raw materials. Our inability to continually enhance our product performance, including our planned improvements to the Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System, to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, would adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. The success of any products utilizing our True Single Molecule Sequencing (tSMS)™ technology will depend on our ability to continue to increase the performance and decrease the price of sequencing using this technology. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge which might allow the analysis of genomic information with similar or better price-performance than our Helicos Genetic Analysis System and could exert pricing pressures on or take market share from our products. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and to 25 Table of Contents successfully introduce new, enhanced and competitive technology to meet our customers' and prospective customers' needs on a timely basis. While we have planned substantial improvements to the Helicos System, including enhancing the performance of the system's reagents and disposable supplies and image processing subsystem and reducing the consumption of reagents, we may not be able to successfully implement these improvements. Even if we successfully implement some or all of these planned improvements, we could incur substantial development costs. We may not have adequate resources available to develop new technologies or be able to successfully introduce enhancements to our system. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to maintain technological advantages over emerging technologies in the future, and we will need to respond to technological innovation in a rapidly changing industry. If we fail to keep pace with emerging technologies, our system will become uncompetitive, our market share will decline and our business, revenue, financial condition and operating results could suffer materially. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will likely be harmed. Some of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, more substantial intellectual property portfolios, longer operating histories, significantly greater resources to invest in new technologies and more substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers than we do. For example, companies such as Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Life Technologies Corporation, the Life Sciences Division of GE Healthcare, Illumina, Inc., and Roche Applied Science have products for genetic analysis which compete in certain segments of the market in which we plan to sell our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have significant needs for genomic information and may also choose to develop or acquire competing technologies to meet these needs. In addition, a number of other companies and academic groups are in the process of developing novel techniques for genetic analysis, many of which have also received grants from the National Human Genome Research Institute, a branch of the National Institutes of Health, for the development of technologies that can achieve substantially lower costs, referred to as a "$100,000 genome" or a "$1,000 genome." These competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Further, in light of these advantages, even if our technology is more effective than the product or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our technology. We may not be able to compete effectively against these organizations. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could harm our sales, profitability or market share. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, to the extent that, in the long term, we commercialize any products utilizing our tSMS technology for use in future life science applications, such as clinical diagnostic or protein analysis applications, we will face additional competition. In the event that we develop new technology and products that compete with existing technology and products of well established companies, the marketplace might not adopt our technology and products. Inability to expand our commercial and research and development capabilities would harm our business. Our December 2008 decision to reduce the Company's operating costs that included, among other strategies, a reduction in the Company's workforce of 30%, will limit our ability to add additional personnel and expand our capabilities to successfully pursue our commercialization strategy for our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System as well as our research and development efforts. We may not have 26 Table of Contents adequate resources to enhance our manufacturing capabilities and operations, information technology infrastructure, and financial and accounting systems and controls. For instance, certain aspects of our operations, such as our manufacturing capabilities, require additional resources to be scaled up to increase the number of Helicos Systems we could manufacture per quarter. We also must attract, train and retain qualified sales, marketing and service personnel, engineers, scientists and other technical personnel and management personnel but may not have adequate resources to do so in the future. Our inability to expand our capabilities, retain existing personnel, attract new personnel and grow our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Future growth would require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new products or enhancements. If our management is unable to effectively manage our limited resources, our revenue could grow more slowly than expected and we may not be able to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals. Our business would be harmed if we are not successful in entering into large contracts for the sale and installation of our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis Systems. Our business may depend upon securing and maintaining large contracts for the sale and installation of our Helicos Genetic Analysis Systems to a limited number of customers each year. We expect the sales cycle for these large contracts to be longer than for other contracts because we will need to educate potential customers regarding the benefits of our system to a variety of constituencies within such customer organizations. Moreover, even after a purchase decision is made, these contracts may be delayed by factors outside our control, including financial and budget constraints of the customers purchasing our product. Accordingly, we may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance that an agreement will be reached with a potential customer. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain major contracts for the sale and installation of our Helicos Systems, or if we experience delays in the performance of such contracts. We expect that our sales cycle will be lengthy and unpredictable, which will make it difficult for us to forecast revenue and increase the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Potential customers for our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System typically commit significant resources to evaluate genetic analysis technologies. The complexity of our product will require us to spend substantial time and effort to assist potential customers in evaluating our Helicos System and in benchmarking it against available technologies. Because our Helicos System requires a significant investment of time and cost by our customers, we must target those senior managers within the customer's organization who are able to make these decisions on behalf of such organizations. We may face difficulty identifying and establishing contact with such decision makers. Even after initial acceptance, the negotiation and documentation processes can be lengthy. Additionally, our customers may have stricter limitations on spending given the current economic climate. We expect our sales cycle to typically range between six and twelve months, but it may be longer. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our customers may purchase replacements for the reagents and disposable supplies that are a part of our Helicos™ Genetic Analysis System from third parties or discover a method that allows them to use less than the expected amounts of such products, which would materially and adversely affect our revenues. The success of our business depends, in part, on the recurring sales of the proprietary reagents and disposable supplies for our system. Because we have not yet commercialized our Helicos Genetic Analysis System, we do not have the experience to predict the percentage of our revenues that we will derive from sales of proprietary reagents and disposable supplies. Nevertheless, we expect such sales to 27 Table of Contents represent a material source of our future revenues. Our customers or competitors could potentially produce reagents and disposable supplies that are compatible with our Helicos System at a lower cost, which could exert pricing pressures on, or take market share from, our reagents and disposable supplies. Similarly, our customers or competitors may discover a method of utilizing smaller quantities of our proprietary reagents and disposable supplies while achieving satisfactory results, which could reduce the amount of reagents and supplies we are able to sell. In either case, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenues and harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to recruit and retain key executives and scientists, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We are substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. We do not maintain employment contracts with any of our employees. In 2008 we implemented a workforce reduction that was designed to reduce our operating costs, conserve cash and direct our resources to continue advancing towards the Company's near term goals. Depending on our circumstances, we may need to implement additional workforce reductions in the future. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the development of our products and other business objectives by diverting management's attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our product development and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed if we are unable to hire, train and retain highly skilled employees and scientific advisors, particularly our management team, senior scientists and engineers and sales, marketing and service personnel. To expand our research, product development and sales efforts we need additional people skilled in areas such as bioinformatics, manufacturing, sales, marketing and technical support. Because of the complex and technical nature of our Helicos System and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our technology. Competition for these people is intense. Further, our inability to hire, train and retain sales, marketing and service personnel could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate sales or successfully commercialize our technology. Each of our executive officers and other key employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. These persons' expertise would be difficult to replace and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business goals. There can be no assurance that we will have the financial resources or otherwise be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ethical, legal and social concerns surrounding the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our technology. One of the potential uses for our product is genetic testing for predisposition to certain conditions. Genetic testing has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. These and other ethical, legal and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Our products could in the future be subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory agencies, which could increase our costs and delay our commercialization efforts, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Our products are not currently subject to U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") clearance or approval if they are not used for the diagnosis or treatment of disease. However, in the future, certain of our products or related applications could be subject to FDA regulation; the FDA's regulatory jurisdiction could be expanded to include our products, or both. Even where a product is exempted from FDA clearance or approval, the FDA may impose restrictions as to the types of customers to which we can market and sell our products. Such regulation and restrictions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations are also in effect in many countries that could affect our products. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or may incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our foreign regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products which have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA or other export restrictions. Our products could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us or divert application of our resources from other purposes. Any product utilizing our True Single Molecule Sequencing (tSMS)™ technology will be complex and may develop or contain undetected defects or errors. We cannot assure you that a material performance problem will not arise. Despite testing, defects or errors may arise in our system, which could result in a failure to achieve market acceptance or expansion, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation and increased service and maintenance costs. Defects or errors in our products might also discourage customers from purchasing our system. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. In addition, such defects or errors could lead to the filing of product liability claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages. Although we plan to obtain product liability insurance, any future product liability insurance that we procure may not protect our assets from the financial impact of a product liability claim. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on acceptable terms. Any insurance that we do obtain will be subject to deductibles and coverage limits. A product liability claim could have a serious adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is and will continue to be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group and we will evaluate the need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. We use hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. We do not currently maintain separate environmental liability coverage. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. Because we are subject to existing and potential additional governmental regulation, we may become subject to burdens on our operations, and the markets for our products may be narrowed. We are subject, both directly and indirectly, to the adverse impact of existing and potential future government regulation of our operations and markets. For example, export of our instruments is subject to strict regulatory control in a number of jurisdictions. The failure to satisfy export control criteria or obtain necessary clearances could delay or prevent shipment of products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, the life sciences industry, which is the market for our technology, has historically been heavily regulated. There are, for example, laws in several jurisdictions restricting research in genetic engineering, which can operate to narrow our markets. Given the evolving nature of this industry, legislative bodies or regulatory authorities may adopt additional regulation that adversely affects our market opportunities. Additionally, if ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of genetic information, diagnostics or therapies become widespread, we may have less demand for our products. Our business is also directly affected by a wide variety of government regulations applicable to business enterprises generally and to companies operating in the life science industry in particular. Failure to comply with these regulations or obtain or maintain necessary permits and licenses could result in a variety of fines or other censures or an interruption in our business operations which may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues and could increase the cost of operating our business. 30 Table of Contents If we make acquisitions in the future, we may encounter a range of problems that could harm our business. We may acquire technologies, products or companies that we feel could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: •difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel; •difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •risks of entering new markets; •potential loss of key employees; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our failure to establish a strong intellectual property position and enforce our intellectual property rights against others would enable competitors to develop similar or alternative technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our products, processes and technologies. Our policy is to seek to protect our intellectual property by, among other methods, filing U.S. patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Our patent portfolio relating to our proprietary technology is comprised of issued patents and pending patent applications which, in either case, we own directly or for which we are the exclusive or semi-exclusive licensee. Some of these patents and patent applications are foreign counterparts of U.S. patents or patent applications. We may not be able to maintain and enforce existing patents or obtain further patents for our products, processes and technologies. Even if we are able to maintain our existing patents or obtain further patents, these patents may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, nor does it provide the patent holder with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and the extent of future protection is highly uncertain, so there can be no assurance that the patent rights that we have or may obtain will be valuable. Others have filed patent applications that are similar in scope to ours, and in the future are likely to file patent applications that are similar or identical in scope to ours or those of our licensors. We cannot predict whether any of our competitors' pending patent applications will result in the issuance of valid patents. Moreover, we cannot assure investors that any such patent applications will not have priority or dominate over our patents or patent applications. The invalidation of key patents owned by or licensed to us or non-approval of pending patent applications could increase competition, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate any of our technologies, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented technologies developed by us. 31 Table of Contents We may be involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect or enforce our patents and proprietary rights and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and which, if unsuccessful, could harm our competitive position and our results of operations. Litigation and administrative proceedings may be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. Litigation on these matters has been prevalent in our industry and we expect that this will continue. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to initiate and participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that could result in substantial costs in legal fees and could substantially affect the scope of our patent protection. Also, our intellectual property may be subject to significant administrative and litigation proceedings such as invalidity, opposition, reexamination, or reissue proceedings against our patents. The outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding might not be favorable to us, and, in that case, we might be required to develop alternative technological approaches that we may not be able to complete successfully or require licenses from others that we may not be able to obtain. Even if such licenses are obtainable, they may not be available at a reasonable cost. We may also be held liable for money damages to third parties and could be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products or technologies. In addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. These types of administrative proceedings and any litigation that may be necessary in the future could result in our patent protection being significantly modified or reduced, and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In August 2006, we filed an opposition against EP 1 105 529 B1 in the European Patent Office, with respect to which we received a preliminary non-binding opinion upholding the patent. In October 2008, EP 1 105 529 B1 was maintained in amended form and in January 2009 we filed a notice of appeal of the European Patent Office's decision. We depend upon our ability to license technologies, and the failure to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies could harm our ability to commercialize our products or defend our intellectual property position. We hold various licenses to use certain technologies that we consider to be material to our business. Each of these licenses imposes a range of obligations on us and may be terminated if we breach the terms of any of the respective agreements. We may also be required to enter into additional licenses with third parties for other technologies that we consider to be necessary for our business. If we are unable to maintain our existing licenses or obtain additional technologies on acceptable terms, we could be required to develop alternative technologies, either alone or with others, in order to avoid infringing the intellectual property to which we no longer hold a license. This could require our product to be re-configured which could negatively impact its availability for commercial sale and increase our development costs. Failure to license or otherwise acquire necessary technologies would harm our ability to commercialize our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any licenses we obtain from federally-funded institutions are subject to the march-in rights of the U.S. government. 32 Table of Contents We may be the subject of costly and time-consuming lawsuits brought by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future, force us to redesign or discontinue our products, or pay royalties to continue to sell our products. Our success depends, in part, on us neither infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties nor breaching any licenses to which we are a party. We may be the subject of legal claims by third-parties that we infringe their patents or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights. In addition, the technology that we license from third parties for use in our Helicos System could become subject to similar infringement claims. Infringement claims asserted against us or our licensors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any claims, either with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could divert our management's attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts of money or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, from third parties asserting an infringement claim; that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all; or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected products. Accordingly, an adverse determination could prevent us from offering our instruments, reagents or disposable supplies to others. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling for such a claim. We believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in such litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The measures that we use to protect the security of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate, which could result in the loss of legal protection for, and thereby diminish the value of, such intellectual property and other rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition to patent protection, we also rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring our employees, consultants and certain academic collaborators to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will provide adequate protection for our patents, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, there can be no assurance that trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our trade secrets and other proprietary information. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market genetic analysis systems similar to our tSMS technology, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. 33 Table of Contents Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we may market our technology may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could materially harm our business. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Our directors and management will exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Certain of our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively control approximately 79.9% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders and subject us to securities class action litigation. Market prices of technology and healthcare companies have been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: •fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or the operating results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; •failure of our technology to achieve or maintain market acceptance or commercial success; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •success of competitive products and services; •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; •regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; •litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; •additions or departures of key personnel; •investors' general perception of us; and •changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for biotechnology and life sciences stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. 34 Table of Contents If equity research analysts do not publish research reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock may rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control the opinions of these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Approximately 76.5% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008 may be offered and sold by selling stockholders pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-156885) once it is declared effective. In addition, up to 25,652,333 additional shares of our common stock may be offered and sold pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-156885) once it is declared effective by selling stockholders upon exercise of warrants issued to them on December 31, 2008. In addition, a majority of the other outstanding shares of our common stock and other warrants are eligible for resale by the holders of those shares pursuant to other effective registration statements or in exempt private transactions. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. We have registered the issuance of all shares of common stock that we have issued and may issue under our employee option plans. Having registered the issuance of these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, there were 277,777 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance as charitable contribution to the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard that will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •a staggered board of directors; •limitations on the removal of directors; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; 35 Table of Contents •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Also, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. Accordingly, given that our executive officers, directors and their affiliates collectively own approximately 79.9% of our outstanding common stock, certain of these persons acting together will have the ability to block any such amendment. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 