Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Risks Related to the Development, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization of our Product Candidates Our near-term success is largely dependent on the success of our clinical stage product candidates, ulimorelin, which is in Phase 3 clinical development and TZP-102, which is in Phase 2b clinical development. Our other product candidates are in the preclinical research stage. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, any of our product candidates. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our clinical stage product candidates, ulimorelin for acceleration of postoperative gastrointestinal (GI) recovery, and TZP-102 for the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis. We have also invested a significant amount of time and financial resources in the development of our other product candidates, TZP-201 and TZP-301. We anticipate that our success will depend largely on the receipt of regulatory approval and successful commercialization of these product candidates, 26particularly our clinical stage product candidates ulimorelin and TZP-102. The future regulatory and commercial success of these product candidates is subject to a number of risks, including the following: •we may not be able to provide acceptable evidence of their safety and efficacy; •the results of our ongoing and planned clinical trials may not confirm the positive results of earlier clinical trials; •the results of our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA, EMA or other regulatory agencies for marketing approval;•the dosing of our product candidate in a particular clinical trial may not be at an optimal level; •our ability to demonstrate clinically meaningful results for ulimorelin in our Phase 3 trials may be more difficult now than when we conducted our Phase 2 trials in 2007 and 2008 due to better placebo performance, which may be attributable to improvements in the overall care of patients in acute care settings;•patients in our clinical trials may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested; •competing products may be approved for marketing by the FDA and EMA and any other similar foreign regulatory authorities; •we may not be able to obtain, maintain and enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights; and •we may not be able to obtain and maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers or establish commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. Furthermore, even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a commercial product, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. Favorable results in our Phase 2 clinical trial of ulimorelin for the acceleration of GI recovery following partial bowel resection surgery may not be predictive of the safety and efficacy results in our Phase 3 clinical trials of ulimorelin for the acceleration of GI recovery following partial bowel resection surgery. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage development. Our Phase 2 clinical trial of ulimorelin for the acceleration of GI recovery following partial bowel resection surgery showed statistically significant results against clinically meaningful endpoints; however, we do not have the same primary endpoints in our Phase 3 clinical trials. In our Phase 2 trial, the primary endpoint was time to recovery of gastrointestinal, or GI, function based on first bowel movement, or BM, but the primary endpoint for our Phase 3 trials is GI2, which is the later of time to BM and tolerance of solid food. Although we observed statistically significant improvement in GI2 in our Phase 2 trial, we cannot assure you that our Phase 3 trials will achieve positive results. A number of factors could contribute to a lack of favorable safety and efficacy results in our Phase 3 trials. For example: •a multinational, multicenter trial could result in increased variability due to varying site characteristics, such as local standards of care, differences in evaluation period and surgical technique; •a multinational, multicenter trial could result in increased variability due to varying patient characteristics including demographic factors and health status; and •mix of surgery types may be different from the prior clinical trial. Favorable results in our Phase 2 clinical trial of TZP-102 for the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis may not be predictive of the safety and efficacy results in our Phase 2b clinical trial of TZP-102 for the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis. Although our proof of concept Phase 2 clinical trial of TZP-102 for the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis showed statistically significant results against clinically meaningful endpoints, we will not have the same primary endpoints or 27reporting instrument in our Phase 2b clinical trial. The primary endpoint for our Phase 2 trial was the change from baseline in gastric emptying time; however, the primary endpoint for our Phase 2b trial is, based upon our meeting with the FDA in November 2010, a composite of clinically relevant, patient-reported symptoms measured by a reporting instrument with a shorter recall period. While we observed statistically significant improvements in these clinically relevant symptoms in our Phase 2 trial, we cannot assure you that our Phase 2b trial will achieve positive results. A number of factors could contribute to a lack of favorable safety and efficacy results in our Phase 2b clinical trial. For example: •a multinational, multicenter trial could result in increased variability due to varying patient characteristics including demographic factors, health status, underlying reason for disease state and concomitant medications; and •an extended length of treatment period could results in changes in safety and efficacy results. Our ability to demonstrate clinically meaningful results for ulimorelin in our Phase 3 trials may be more difficult now than when we conducted our Phase 2 trials in 2007 and 2008 due to better placebo performance, which may be attributable to improvements in the overall care of patients in acute care settings. Over the past several years, postoperative measures such as early mobilization, early feeding and removal of the nasogastric tube, without any additional pharmacological interventions, have contributed to improved recovery of GI motility in patients that undergo bowel resection surgery. Our Phase 2 trial of ulimorelin for the acceleration of GI recovery following bowel resection surgery incorporated these enhanced recovery measures. Although the protocols for our Phase 3 trials of ulimorelin also incorporate these enhanced recovery measures, additional measures may be implemented by some of the investigational sites that could further accelerate GI recovery in the placebo treated group. If we are unable to demonstrate clinically meaningful results, we may have difficulty receiving the regulatory approval necessary to commercialize ulimorelin. If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals for ulimorelin, TZP-102 or our other product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize them and our ability to generate revenue will be limited. We have not submitted an NDA or received regulatory approval to market for any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. We have only limited experience in filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals and expect to rely on consultants and third party contract research organizations to assist us in this process. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish each product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Our product candidates, and any future product candidates, may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. We are not permitted to market ulimorelin, TZP-102, TZP-201 or TZP-301 in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA for the product candidate in a particular indication from the FDA. Failure to obtain regulatory marketing approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon, among other things, the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for a submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Regulatory approval obtained in one jurisdiction does not necessarily mean that a product candidate will receive regulatory approval in all jurisdictions in which we may seek approval. We have completed three Phase 2 trials for ulimorelin: two in patients with diabetic gastroparesis and one in patients undergoing partial bowel resection. We have completed dosing in our two Phase 3 trials in patients undergoing partial bowel resection. We have completed a Phase 2, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in 92 subjects which evaluated TZP-102 in diabetic patients with gastroparesis over a 28-day period. We initiated a Phase 2b trial in diabetic gastroparesis patients in September 2011. We cannot guarantee that our future trials will be successful or that regulators will agree with our assessment of the preclinical studies and clinical trials we have conducted to date. The FDA, EMA and other regulators have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for 28approval and require additional clinical trials, or preclinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretation of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable.Even if we receive regulatory approval for one of our product candidates, we still may not be able to successfully commercialize it and the revenue that we generate from its sales, if any, will be limited. The commercial success of any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of such product by the medical community, including physicians, patients and health care payors. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: •demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; •relative convenience and ease of administration; •the prevalence and severity of any adverse effects; •limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling; •availability of alternative treatments, including, metoclopramide, erythromycin, domperidone and alvimopan and any new products that may in the future become available to treat indications for which ulimorelin or TZP-102 may be approved; •new procedures or methods of treatment that may reduce the incidences of any of the indications in which our product candidates may show utility; •pricing and cost-effectiveness; •the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; •our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement from government health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payors; and •the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of third-party coverage. If our product candidates are approved, but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. In addition, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend on our ability to manufacture our products, differentiate our products from competing products and defend the intellectual property of our products. It will be difficult for us to profitably sell any of our product candidates if reimbursement is limited. Market acceptance and sales of our product candidates will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors have been challenging the prices charged for products. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. This trend may impact the reimbursement for treatments for GI disorders especially, as physicians typically focus on symptoms rather than underlying conditions when treating patients with these disorders and drugs are often prescribed for uses outside of their approved indications. In instances where alternative products are available, it may be required that those alternative treatment options are tried before reimbursement is available for our products. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for our product candidates and, if reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, in certain foreign 29countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates. We have limited sales, marketing or distribution experience and we will have to invest significant resources to develop those capabilities. We have limited sales, marketing or distribution experience. To develop internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we will have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources, some of which will be committed prior to any confirmation that ulimorelin, TZP-102 or any other of our product candidates will be approved. For product candidates where we decide to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of additional risks, including: •we may not be able to attract and build an effective marketing or sales force; • the cost of establishing a marketing or sales force may exceed the revenues generated by any products; and •our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. We have entered into an agreement with Norgine B.V., or Norgine, to assist in the development and commercialization of ulimorelin outside the United States, if approved, and may elect to seek other strategic partners for our products. We may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. Our future revenues may depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. Federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. We may face competition in the United States for our product candidates, if approved, from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. This risk may be particularly applicable to drugs such as TZP-102 that are formulated for oral delivery and expected to command a premium price. The U.S. Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, contains provisions that may change U.S. importation laws and expand pharmacists’ and wholesalers’ ability to import lower priced versions of an approved drug and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to U.S. importation laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will pose no additional risk to the public’s health and safety and will result in a significant reduction in the cost of products to consumers. The Secretary of Health and Human Services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification. A number of federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the U.S. importation laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other government agencies. For example, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2010, expressly prohibits U.S. Customs and Border Protection from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from Canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval could negatively impact our revenue and profitability, possibly materially.We rely and will continue to rely on outsourcing arrangements for certain of our activities, including clinical research of our product candidates and manufacturing of the compounds and product candidates. We rely on outsourcing arrangements for some of our activities, including manufacturing, preclinical and clinical research, data collection and analysis. We may have limited control over these third parties and we cannot guarantee that they will perform their obligations in an effective and timely manner. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the 30development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of any of our product candidates, nor do we have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. We currently depend on third-party contract manufacturers for all of our required raw materials, drug substance and drug product for our preclinical research and clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers, or termination of our existing manufacturer relationships, could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates. Although we believe there are a number of potential replacement manufacturers for our product candidates, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements because the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer prior to manufacturing our product candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections which could result in significant additional costs to us and delays in regulatory approval of our product candidates. We do not have any current contractual relationships for the manufacture of commercial supplies of any of our product candidates and the current manufacturer of ulimorelin, our most advanced product candidate, may not have the capacity to serve commercial demand. If any of our product candidates are approved for sale by any regulatory agency, we intend to enter into agreements with third-party contract manufacturers for the commercial production of those products. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture bulk drug substance on a commercial scale is limited. In addition, our reliance on third party contract research organizations, or CROs, and contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, entails further risks including, but not limited to: •non-compliance by third parties with regulatory and quality control standards; •breach by third parties of our agreements with them; •termination or non-renewal of an agreement with third parties; and •sanctions imposed by regulatory authorities if compounds supplied or manufactured by a third party supplier or manufacturer fail to comply with applicable regulatory standards. If any of our current strategic partners fails to perform its obligations or terminates or fails to renew its agreement with us, the development and commercialization of the product candidates under such agreement could be delayed or terminated and our business could be substantially harmed. We currently have strategic partnerships in place relating to certain of our product candidates and technologies. We entered into a license agreement with Norgine regarding the development and commercialization of ulimorelin for the potential acceleration of postoperative GI recovery and other diseases and disorders in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Middle East, North Africa and South Africa. We entered into a strategic collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, or BMS, primarily focused on the identification and optimization of novel drug compounds for certain targets of interest to BMS. These strategic partnerships may not be scientifically or commercially successful due to a number of important factors, including the following: •BMS and Norgine have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that each will apply to their strategic relationship with us. The timing and amount of any cash payments, milestones and royalties that we may receive under such agreements will depend on, among other things, the efforts, allocation of resources and successful development and commercialization of our product candidates by BMS and Norgine under their respective agreements. •Our agreement with BMS provides it with wide discretion in deciding which novel compounds to advance through the clinical development process. It is possible for BMS to reject certain compounds at any point in the research, development and clinical trial process without triggering a termination of their agreement with us. In the event of any such decision, our business and prospects may be adversely affected due to our inability to progress such compounds ourselves. •BMS or Norgine may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, or be acquired by a company that has, products that are similar to or competitive with the product candidates that they license from us. •BMS or Norgine may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or pursue higher-priority programs.31 •BMS or Norgine may, under specified circumstances, terminate their strategic partnership with us on short notice and for circumstances outside of our control, which could make it difficult for us to attract new strategic partners or adversely affect how we are perceived in the scientific and financial communities. •BMS and Norgine have, under certain circumstances, the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights licensed to them, and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our strategic partners do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our strategic partners’ acts or omissions. •BMS or Norgine may utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability. •BMS or Norgine may not comply with all applicable regulatory requirements, or fail to report safety data in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements.•BMS may choose not to extend the research term, during which it funds full-time equivalent costs and other research expenses, when the current research term expires in June 2012. If either BMS or Norgine fails to develop or effectively commercialize novel compounds or ulimorelin, respectively, for any of the foregoing reasons, we may not be able to replace the strategic partner with another partner. We may also be unable to obtain, on terms acceptable to us, a license from such strategic partner to any of its intellectual property that may be necessary or useful for us to continue to develop and commercialize a product candidate. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our ability to achieve future profitability, and could cause our stock price to decline. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As we seek to advance our product candidates through clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers and other third parties. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company. A variety of risks associated with our planned international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. We have entered into an agreement with Norgine for the development of ulimorelin, and we may enter into agreements with other third parties for the development and commercialization of ulimorelin or our other product candidates, in international markets. International business relationships subject us to additional risks, including: •differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; •potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; •potential third party patent rights in foreign countries; •the potential for so-called parallel importing, which is what happens when a local seller, faced with high or higher local prices, opts to import goods from a foreign market, with low or lower prices, rather than buying them locally; •unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; •economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability, particularly in foreign economies and markets;32•compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees traveling abroad; •foreign taxes; •foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; •workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and •business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, typhoons, floods, hurricanes and fires. These and other risks of international business relationships may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or sustain profitable operations. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before, or more successfully, than we do. Our future success depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to the design, development and commercialization of product candidates. Our objective is to design, develop and commercialize new products with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability or safety. We expect any product candidate that we commercialize with our strategic partners or on our own will compete with existing, market-leading products. For example, we anticipate that ulimorelin, if approved for the acceleration of GI recovery following partial bowel resection surgery, and TZP-102, if approved for the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis, would compete directly with metoclopramide, erythromycin, domperidone and alvimopan, each of which is available under various trade names sold by several major pharmaceutical companies. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. We will not be able to compete successfully unless we successfully: •design and develop products that are superior to other products in the market; •attract qualified scientific, medical, sales and marketing and commercial personnel; •obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our processes and product candidates; •obtain required regulatory approvals; and •collaborate with others in the design, development and commercialization of new products. Established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer.If we fail to attract and retain senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. We are highly dependent upon our senior management, as well as other senior scientists and members of our management team. The loss of services of any of these individuals or one or more of our other members of senior management could delay or prevent the successful development of our product pipeline, completion of our ongoing or planned clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates. We do not have employment agreements with any members of our senior management other than Vipin Garg, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We carry “key person” insurance only on our President and Chief Executive Officer.33 We need to hire and retain qualified personnel for the development, manufacture and commercialization of drugs. We could experience problems in the future attracting and retaining qualified employees. For example, competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our clinical development and commercial activities. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms who have the expertise we need to sustain and grow our business. If we engage in an acquisition, reorganization or business combination, we will incur a variety of risks that could adversely affect our business operations or our stockholders. From time to time we have considered, and we will continue to consider in the future, strategic business initiatives intended to further the development of our business. These initiatives may include acquiring businesses, technologies or products or entering into a business combination with another company. If we do pursue such a strategy, we could, among other things: •issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; •incur substantial debt that may place strains on our operations; •spend substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products; •assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities; • reprioritize our development programs and even cease development and commercialization of our product candidates; or •merge with, or otherwise enter into a business combination with, another company in which our stockholders would receive cash or shares of the other company or a combination of both on terms that certain of our stockholders may not deem desirable. Although we intend to evaluate and consider acquisitions, reorganizations and business combinations in the future, we have no agreements or understandings with respect to any acquisition, reorganization or business combination at this time. Risks Related to Marketing Approval and Other Government Regulations The FDA may impose requirements on our clinical trials that are difficult to comply with, which could harm our business. The requirements that the FDA may impose on clinical trials for our product candidates are uncertain. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with such requirements. For example, the FDA may require endpoints in our late-stage clinical trials that are different from or in addition to the endpoints in our early-stage clinical trials or the endpoints which we may propose. The endpoints or other trial elements, including sample size, dose selection and level at which clinical meaningfulness is achieved, that the FDA requires may make it less likely that our Phase 3 clinical trials are successful or may delay completion of the trials. If we are unable to comply with the FDA’s requirements, we will not be able to get approval for our product candidates and our business will suffer.Any termination or suspension of, or delays in the commencement or completion of, clinical testing of our product candidates could result in increased costs to us, delay or limit our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our commercial prospects. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or planned or ongoing trials will be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to: •the FDA failing to grant permission to proceed and placing the clinical trial on hold; •the FDA’s willingness to review our TZP-102 application under the fast track development program; 34•subjects failing to enroll or remain in our trials at the rate we expect; •a facility manufacturing our product candidates being ordered by the FDA or other government or regulatory authorities to temporarily or permanently shut down due to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, or other applicable requirements, or infections or cross-contaminations of product candidates in the manufacturing process; •any changes to our manufacturing process that may be necessary or desired; •subjects choosing an alternative treatment for the indications for which we are developing our product candidates, or participating in competing clinical trials;•subjects experiencing severe or unexpected drug-related adverse effects; •reports from preclinical or clinical testing on similar technologies and products raising safety and/or efficacy concerns; •third-party clinical investigators losing their license or permits necessary to perform our clinical trials, not performing our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practice and regulatory requirements, or other third parties not performing data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; •inspections of clinical trial sites by the FDA or institutional review boards, or IRBs, finding regulatory violations that require us to undertake corrective action, result in suspension or termination of one or more sites or the imposition of a clinical hold on the entire trial, or that prohibit us from using some or all of the data in support of our marketing applications; •third-party contractors becoming debarred or suspended or otherwise penalized by the FDA or other government or regulatory authorities for violations of regulatory requirements, in which case we may need to find a substitute contractor, and we may not be able to use some or any of the data produced by such contractors in support of our marketing applications; or •one or more IRBs refusing to approve, suspending or terminating the trial at an investigational site, precluding enrollment of additional subjects, or withdrawing its approval of the trial. Product development costs will increase if we have delays in testing or approval of our product candidates or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and policies may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of or if we, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the IRB, or other reviewing entities, or any of our clinical trial sites suspend or terminate any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidate may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, termination or suspension of, or a delay in the commencement or completion of, clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Also if one or more clinical trials are delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do, and the commercial viability of our product candidates could be significantly reduced.Final marketing approval of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for commercial use may be delayed, limited, or denied, any of which would adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. After the completion of our clinical trials, we cannot predict whether or when we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates and we cannot, therefore, predict the timing of any future revenue from these product candidates. Ulimorelin and TZP-102 are ghrelin receptor agonists. There are no FDA-approved ghrelin receptor agonists and the adverse effects from long-term exposure to this drug class are unknown. We cannot commercialize any of our product candidates until the appropriate regulatory authorities have reviewed and approved the applications for the product candidates. We cannot assure you that the regulatory agencies will complete their review processes in a timely manner or that we will obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate we develop. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the 35product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, we may experience delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. If marketing approval for our product candidates is delayed, limited or denied, our ability to market products, and our ability to generate product sales, would be adversely affected. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our product candidates, when and if any of them are approved. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly and time consuming post-approval studies, post-market surveillance or clinical trials. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturing facility or us, including requesting recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters or untitled letters; •seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; •suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; •suspend any ongoing clinical trials; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements or applications filed by us; •suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or •seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of product, or request us to initiate a product recall. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue. The FDA has the authority to require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy plan as part of an NDA or after approval, which may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of an approved drug, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. In addition, if any of our product candidates are approved, our product labeling, advertising and promotion would be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. If we receive marketing approval for our product candidates, physicians may nevertheless prescribe our products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant sanctions. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed.36 Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval for our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We are not sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA’s approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. In the United States, the MMA changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, this legislation authorized Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to use formularies where they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Health Care Reform Law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the Health Care Reform Law revised the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Further, the new law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. We will not know the full effects of the Health Care Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Health Care Reform Law, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to penetrate foreign markets, where we are subject to additional regulatory burdens and other risks and uncertainties. However, we have limited experience marketing and servicing our products outside North America. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to grow and ultimately maintain our sales in foreign markets. We rely on third parties, such as Norgine, to support our foreign operations. Our foreign operations and any foreign operations we establish in the future subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, including: •our customers’ ability to obtain reimbursement for procedures using our products in foreign markets; •our inability to directly control commercial activities because we are relying on third parties who may not put the same priority on our products as we would; •the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory, tax, accounting and legal requirements; •different medical practices and customs in foreign countries affecting acceptance in the marketplace; •import or export licensing requirements;37 •longer accounts receivable collection times; •longer lead times for shipping; •language barriers for technical training; •reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; •foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and •the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute. Foreign sales of our products could also be adversely affected by the imposition of governmental controls, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. If we market products in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws, or if we violate government price reporting laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws have been applied in recent years to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry. These laws include false claims statutes and anti-kickback statutes. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are several statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Over the past few years, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as: allegedly providing free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants and other monetary benefits to prescribers; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered, off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program to reduce liability for Medicaid rebates. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. For example, we may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:38 •decreased demand for our product candidates or products that we may develop; •injury to our reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •costs to defend the related litigation; •a diversion of management’s time and our resources; •substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; •product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; •loss of revenue; •the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and •a decline in our stock price. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. We currently carry product liability insurance covering our clinical trials in the amount of $5.0 million in the aggregate. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We may have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we cannot ensure the protection of these rights. We place considerable importance on obtaining patent protection for new technologies, products and processes because our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining patent protection for new technologies, products and processes, successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges and successfully enforcing our patents against third party competitors. To that end, we file applications for patents covering compositions of matter or uses of our product candidates or our proprietary processes as well as other intellectual property important to our business. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Accordingly, our patent applications may never be approved by U.S. or foreign patent offices and the patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties and might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies. Others have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products and technologies that are similar, identical or competitive to ours, or important to our business. We cannot be certain that any patent application owned by a third party will not have priority over patent applications filed or in-licensed by us, or that we or our licensors will not be involved in interference, opposition or invalidity proceedings before U.S. or foreign patent offices. In addition, under the recently enacted America Invents Act of 2011 (“AIA”), the U.S. patent system, among other things, will transition from a first-to-invent to a first-to-file patent system, will increase the scope of prior art available for patentability and invalidity determinations, and will introduce new procedures, including post-grant review and inter parties review, for challenging U.S. patents once they have granted. The various provisions of the AIA, once they become effective, may impact our ability to secure meaningful patent protection for inventions that we develop in the future. We also rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require employees, academic collaborators, consultants and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection 39with our collaborators and advisors, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be imperiled. Claims by third parties that we infringe their proprietary rights may result in liability for damages or prevent or delay our developmental and commercialization efforts. The biotechnology industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Because patent applications are maintained in secrecy until the application is published, we may be unaware of third party patents that may be infringed by commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, identification of third party patent rights that may be relevant to our technology is difficult because patent searching is imperfect due to differences in terminology among patents, incomplete databases and the difficulty in assessing the meaning of patent claims. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time consuming and could likely: •result in costly litigation;•divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; •cause product candidate development delays; •prevent us from commercializing a product until the asserted patent expires or is held finally invalid or not infringed in a court of law; •require us to develop non-infringing technology; or•require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although no third party has asserted a claim of infringement against us, others may hold proprietary rights that could prevent our product candidates from being marketed. Any patent-related legal action against our collaborators or us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our product candidates and processes could subject us to potential liability for damages and require our collaborators or us to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. We cannot predict whether our collaborators or we would prevail in any such actions or that any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we cannot be sure that we could redesign our product candidates or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing and commercializing at least some of our product candidates, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and delay or prevent our development and commercialization efforts. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter that our collaborators or we may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including ulimorelin and TZP-102 and we do not know if such patents and patent applications would be available to license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A number of companies, including several major pharmaceutical companies, have conducted research on pharmaceutical uses of growth hormone secretagogues, including ghrelin and ghrelin analogs, which resulted in the filing of many patent applications related to this research. We are aware of third party United States patents, and corresponding foreign counterparts, that contain broad claims related to methods of using these general types of compounds, which may be construed to include ulimorelin and TZP-102, for stimulation of gastrointestinal motility or treatment of neuropathy associated with diabetes. If we were to challenge the validity of these or any issued United States patent in court, we would need to overcome a statutory presumption of validity that attaches to every United States patent. This means that in order to prevail, we would have to present clear and convincing evidence as to the invalidity of the patent’s claims. If we were to challenge the enforceability of these or any issued United States patent in court, we would need to meet the burden of showing that the patent is unenforceable. There is no assurance that a jury and/or court would find in our favor on questions of infringement, validity or enforceability. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, 40require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. We may be subject to claims that we have wrongfully hired an employee from a competitor or that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged confidential information or trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject in the future to claims that our employees or prospective employees are subject to a continuing obligation to their former employers (such as non-competition or non-solicitation obligations) or claims that our employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed. Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA marketing approval of ulimorelin, TZP-102 and our other products, one or more of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term restoration under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, we may not be granted an extension because of, for example, failing to apply within applicable deadlines, failing to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term of any such extension is less than we request, our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our revenue could be reduced, possibly materially. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Capital We have incurred significant operating losses since inception, and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may never become profitable or, if achieved, be able to sustain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses since we were founded in 1998 and expect to incur significant losses for the next several years as we conduct our Phase 3 trials for ulimorelin and Phase 2b trial for TZP-102. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $106.6 million. Losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our clinical trials, research and development programs and from our general and administrative expenses. In the future, we intend to continue to conduct research and development, clinical testing, regulatory compliance activities and, if any of our product candidates is approved, sales and marketing activities that, together with anticipated general and administrative expenses, will likely result in our incurring further significant losses for the next several years. We currently generate no revenue from sales, and we may never be able to develop marketable drugs. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will ever generate revenues or achieve profitability, which could impair our ability to sustain operations or obtain any required additional funding. If we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our most advanced product candidates. We will require substantial future capital in order to complete clinical development and commercialize our most advanced product candidate, ulimorelin, and to conduct the research and development and clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring other product candidates to market, including TZP-102. The amount and timing of any expenditure needed to implement our development and commercialization programs will depend on numerous factors, including: •the progress, costs, results of and timing of our two Phase 3 clinical trials of ulimorelin for the acceleration of postoperative GI recovery;41•the need for, and the progress, costs and results of, any additional Phase 3 clinical trials of ulimorelin we may initiate based on the results of our clinical trials or our discussions with regulatory agencies, including any additional trials the FDA, EMA or other regulatory agencies may require evaluating the safety of ulimorelin; •the progress, costs, results of and timing of our Phase 2b clinical trial of TZP-102 for treatment of diabetic gastroparesis and future clinical trials of TZP-102; •the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approval in the United States and abroad for our product candidates; •the FDA’s willingness to review our TZP-102 application under the fast track development program;•the costs of obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other intellectual property rights globally; •the costs and timing of obtaining or maintaining manufacturing for our product candidates, including commercial manufacturing if any of our product candidates is approved; •the costs and timing of establishing sales and marketing capabilities in selected markets; and •the terms and timing of establishing collaborations, license agreements and other partnerships on terms favorable to us. Some of these factors are outside of our control. Based upon our currently expected level of operating expenditures, we should be able to fund our operations into the fourth quarter of 2013. However, we do not expect our existing capital resources to be sufficient to enable us to fund the completion of any of our development programs through commercial introduction. We expect that we will need to raise additional funds in the future. We may seek additional funding through collaboration agreements and public or private financings. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. In addition, the issuance of additional shares by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our research or development programs. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or otherwise that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates or otherwise agree to terms unfavorable to us. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments is limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and may be subject to further limitation as a result of the recent public offering of our stock. Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of the company’s stock immediately before the ownership change. We may be unable to offset future taxable income, if any, with losses, or our tax liability with credits, before such losses and credits expire and therefore would incur larger federal income tax liability. In addition, it is possible that the recent public offering of our stock, either on a standalone basis or when combined with future transactions, will cause us to undergo one or more additional ownership changes. In that event, we generally would not be able to use our pre-change loss or credit carryovers or certain built-in losses prior to such ownership change to offset future taxable income in excess of the annual limitations imposed by Sections 382 and 383 and those attributes already subject to limitations as a result of our prior ownership changes may be subject to more stringent limitations. As of December 31, 2011, we have estimated approximately $2.9 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards are at risk of loss due to prior ownership changes, as well as approximately $11.7 million of U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards at risk of limitation in the event of a future ownership change.42Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading price of the shares of our common stock could be highly volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price at which it was purchased. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:•our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials; •results of clinical trials of our product candidates, those of our competitors or those of other companies in our market sector; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;•changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems, especially in light of current reforms to the U.S. healthcare system; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; •sales of our stock by insiders and 5% stockholders; •general economic, industry and market conditions; •additions or departures of key personnel; •intellectual property, product liability or other litigation against us; •expiration or termination of our relationships with our collaborators; and •the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, in the past, stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies’ stock. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: •variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs; •addition or termination of clinical trials; •any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; •regulatory developments affecting our product candidates; 43•our execution of any collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; and•the achievement and timing of milestone payments under our existing strategic partnership agreements. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. Because a small number of our stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock and have substantial control over us, your ability to influence corporate matters will be limited. As of December 31, 2011, our executive officers, directors and greater than 5% stockholders, in the aggregate, owned approximately 76.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, such persons, acting together, will have the ability to control our management and affairs and substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of any significant transaction. These persons will also have the ability to control our management and business affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would benefit other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include: •the prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; •the limitation on who may call a special meeting of stockholders; •the establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; •the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which would increase the number of outstanding shares and could thwart a takeover attempt; and •the requirement of at least 75% of the outstanding common stock to amend any of the foregoing provisions. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.The trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading 44market for a stock quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market. Additionally, the public float of our common stock is approximately 75.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which substantially reduces the liquidity of our common stock and contributes to the limited trading volume for our common stock. Since our initial listing on The NASDAQ Global Market on April 1, 2011, the trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market. The quotation of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and affiliates, in the aggregate own approximately 24.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which adversely affects the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock, in as much as federal securities laws restrict sales of our shares by these stockholders. If our affiliates continue to hold their shares of common stock, there will be limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares or increase the volatility of our stock price.Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline.If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after legal restrictions lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, a relatively small number of our stockholders own large blocks of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that public sales of these shares or the availability of these shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. After the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expired on September 29, 2011, an additional 10,208,845 shares became eligible for sale in the public market, subject to any applicable volume limitations under federal securities laws. In addition, as of December 31, 2011 we had outstanding exercisable options and outstanding warrants to purchase shares of common stock that, if exercised, will result in these additional shares becoming available for sale, subject in some cases to volume limitations. Shares subject to outstanding options under our equity incentive plans and shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans will also become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. Moreover, as of December 31, 2011, holders of approximately 10,232,336 shares of our common stock have the right to require us to register these shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a registration rights agreement. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce accurate financial statements and on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. We have not been subject to these requirements in the past. The internal control report must contain (a) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (b) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (c) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective, and (d) a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we are engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will have dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed work plan to (a) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (b) take steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (c) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and (d) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed time frame that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our 45financial statements. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts and may not maintain such coverage or obtain research coverage by additional securities and industry analysts. If we do not maintain such existing coverage, and additional securities or industry analysts do not commence coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 