Item 1A. Risk Factors Hospira's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. These risks and uncertainties may cause (1) Hospira's sales and results of operations to fluctuate significantly; (2) Hospira's past performance to not be indicative of future performance; and (3) Hospira's actual performance to differ materially from Hospira's expectations or projections. The risks described below may not be the only risks Hospira faces. Additional risks that Hospira does not yet know of or that Hospira currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Hospira's results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. See "Forward-Looking Statements." Hospira faces significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. Hospira competes with many companies, both public and private, that range from small, highly focused companies to large diversified healthcare manufacturers that are larger than Hospira and have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than Hospira. There has been consolidation by Hospira's competitors, which may result in pricing and sales pressures, causing competition to become more intense. Hospira's present or 13 Table of Contents future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by competitors or by the introduction of competing products by one or more of its competitors. To remain competitive and bolster its competitive position, Hospira believes that it must successfully execute various strategic plans, including expanding its research and development initiatives, and lowering its operating costs. These initiatives may result in significant expenditures and ultimately may not be successful. Many of Hospira's products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights and are therefore not entitled to market exclusivity. In the absence of patent protection, the introduction of competing products is limited primarily by market considerations and the need to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, which may not keep competitors from providing competitive products. Hospira's failure to compete effectively could cause it to lose market share to its competitors and/or have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. If Hospira does not introduce new products in a timely manner, its products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy its products, and its sales and profitability may decline. Demand for Hospira's products may change in ways Hospira may not anticipate because of evolving customer needs, the introduction by others of new products and technologies, and evolving industry standards. A key component to Hospira's strategy is effective execution of its research and development activities, in part to increase the breadth of Hospira's specialty injectable product portfolio and to develop new and improved medication management systems products. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, Hospira's products may become obsolete over time, in which case its sales and operating results would suffer. If Hospira does not continue to develop generic injectable pharmaceuticals in a timely manner, its competitors may develop generic injectable pharmaceutical product portfolios that are more competitive than Hospira's, and Hospira could find it more difficult to renew or expand GPO pricing agreements or to obtain new agreements. The ability to launch a generic pharmaceutical product at or before generic market formation is important to that product's profitability. Prices for generic products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following market formation, as additional companies receive approvals to market that product and competition intensifies. If a company can be "first to market," such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved. With increasing competition in the generic product market, the timeliness with which Hospira can market new generic products will increase in importance. If Hospira is unable to bring its generic products to market on a timely basis, and secure "first to market" positions, its sales and profitability could be harmed. Hospira faces similar risks if it does not introduce new versions or upgrades to its medication management systems. Innovations generally require a substantial investment in product development before Hospira can determine their commercial viability, and Hospira may not have the financial resources necessary to fund these innovations. Even if Hospira succeeds in creating new product candidates from these innovations, such innovations may still fail to result in commercially successful products. It may take more time and effort for Hospira to sell and implement newer-technology medication management systems to its customers. Even if Hospira is able to successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations of its existing products, these new products or enhancements or new generations of its existing products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development or may not avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. They may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Finally, innovations may not become successful because of difficulties encountered in achieving positive clinical outcomes, meeting safety, efficacy or other regulatory requirements of government agencies or obtaining favorable pricing on such products. Moreover, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory 14 Table of Contents clearance and uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Demand for Hospira's products may also decrease due to adverse economic conditions, resulting in the loss of jobs and/or healthcare coverage, thereby affecting an individual's ability to pay for elective healthcare. Failure to effectively manage efforts under product collaboration agreements may harm Hospira's business and profitability. Hospira collaborates with other companies for the development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of new products. For example, Hospira has entered into collaboration agreements relating to the long-term development and commercialization of biogeneric products, which Hospira views as an important long-term opportunity for its specialty injectable pharmaceutical product line. Hospira's ability to benefit from these arrangements will depend on its ability to successfully manage these arrangements and the performance of the other parties to these arrangements. Hospira and the other parties to these arrangements may not efficiently work together, leading to higher-than-anticipated costs and/or delays in important activities under the arrangements. The other parties to these arrangements may not devote the resources that are required for the arrangement to be successful. These arrangements are often governed by complex agreements that may be subject to differing interpretations by the parties, which may result in disputes. These factors are often beyond the control of Hospira, and could harm Hospira's sales, product development efforts and profitability. Hospira is subject to the cost-containment efforts of wholesalers, distributors, customers, third-party payors and government organizations. Hospira relies on drug wholesalers to assist in the distribution of its generic injectable pharmaceutical products. In general, drug wholesalers have been attempting to implement, and unilaterally enforce, a fee-for-service model for the distribution of such products. While Hospira has business arrangements in place with its major drug wholesalers, if Hospira is required to pay fees not contemplated by its existing arrangements, Hospira will incur additional costs to distribute its products, which may harm Hospira's profitability. Hospira's products and services are sold to hospitals and alternate site providers, such as clinics, home healthcare providers and long-term care facilities. Interest rate fluctuations, changes in capital market conditions and adverse economic conditions may increase Hospira's customers' cost-containment efforts, and affect Hospira's customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their purchases of Hospira's products, which could reduce Hospira's revenue growth and cause a decrease in Hospira's profitability. Furthermore, Hospira's customers receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as government programs, private insurance plans and managed-care programs. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. Levels of reimbursement, if any, may be decreased in the future, and future healthcare reform legislation, regulations or changes to reimbursement policies of third-party payors may otherwise adversely affect the demand for and price levels of Hospira's products, which could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's sales and profitability. In markets outside the United States, Hospira's business has experienced downward pressure on product pricing as a result of the concentrated buying power of governments as principal customers and the use of bid-and-tender sales methods whereby Hospira is required to submit a bid for the sale of its products. Hospira's failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability in these markets. 15 Table of Contents If Hospira is unable to obtain or maintain its GPO and IDN pricing agreements, sales of its products could decline. Many existing and potential customers for Hospira's products have combined to form GPOs, and IDNs in an effort to lower costs. A small number of GPOs influence a majority of sales to Hospira's hospital customers in the U.S. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPO's or an IDN's affiliated hospitals and other members. Failure to negotiate advantageous pricing and purchasing arrangements could cause Hospira to lose market share to its competitors and/or have a material adverse effect on its sales and profitability. Hospira has pricing agreements covering certain products with the major GPOs in the U.S., including Amerinet, Inc.; Broadlane Inc.; HealthTrust Purchasing Group LP; MedAssets Inc.; Novation, LLC; PACT, LLC; and Premier Purchasing Partners, LP. It will be important for Hospira to continue to maintain pricing arrangements with major GPOs. In order to maintain these relationships, Hospira must offer a reliable supply of high-quality, regulatory-compliant products. Hospira also needs to maintain a broad product line and be price-competitive. Several GPO contracts are up for renewal or extension each year. Moreover, some of the agreements may be terminated on 60 or 90 days' notice, while others may not be terminated without breach until the end of their contracted term. If Hospira is unable to renew or extend one or more of those contracts, or one or more of the contracts are terminated, and Hospira cannot replace lost business, Hospira's sales and profitability will decline. There has been consolidation among major GPOs, and further consolidation may occur. The effect of consolidation is uncertain, and consolidation may impair Hospira's ability to contract with GPOs in the future. The GPOs also have a variety of business relationships with Hospira's competitors and may decide to enter into pricing agreements for, or otherwise prefer, products other than Hospira's. While GPOs negotiate incentives for members to purchase specified products from a given manufacturer or distributor, GPO pricing agreements allow customers to choose between the products covered by the arrangement and another manufacturer's products, whether or not purchased under a negotiated pricing agreement. As a result, Hospira may face competition for its products even within the context of its GPO pricing agreements. Hospira and its suppliers and customers are subject to various governmental regulations, and it could be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Hospira's products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug or medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain governmental authorities outside the U.S., can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. To ensure ongoing customer safety, regulatory agencies such as the FDA may re-evaluate their current approval processes for generic drugs and may impose additional requirements. In addition, the FDA and others may impose increased or enhanced regulatory inspections for foreign plants. The U.S. government and various states in the U.S. are considering or have adopted laws requiring pedigrees for healthcare products that are designed to reduce or prevent counterfeiting. The implementation of a pedigree system may lead to significant costs and may harm future profitability. If Hospira is unable to develop and implement a pedigree system as required by an existing law or any laws which are subsequently enacted, this could disrupt Hospira's business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospira's sales, profitability and financial condition. The FDA, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug and medical device applications, which has delayed approvals of new products. Those 16 Table of Contents delays have become longer, and may continue to increase in the future. FDA officials have announced plans to propose user fees in connection with applications by generic drug producers like Hospira for approval of new generic drug products. If enacted, user fees would increase Hospira's product development costs. Existing regulations may also delay or prevent generic drug producers such as Hospira from offering certain products, such as biogeneric products, in key territories, which could harm Hospira's ability to grow its business. If a clear regulatory pathway for the approval of biogeneric products is not fully developed in the United States and other jurisdictions, Hospira may not be able to generate future sales of such products in those jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of its investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for product candidates could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. Hospira may not be able to remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other material regulatory requirements once it has obtained clearance or approval for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts, some of which are related to manufacturing quality concerns. Hospira may be required by regulatory authorities, or determine on its own, to temporarily cease production and sale of certain products to resolve manufacturing and product quality concerns, which would harm Hospira's sales, margins and profitability in the affected periods and may have a material adverse effect on Hospira's business. Many of Hospira's facilities and procedures and those of its suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. For example, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with detailed regulations governing current good manufacturing practices, including requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance. Hospira must incur expense and spend time and effort in the areas of production, safety, quality control and quality assurance to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. In the past, Hospira's business has received notices alleging violations of these regulations, and Hospira has modified its practices in response to these notices. Hospira's manufacturing facilities and those of its suppliers could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions in the future. These possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of its products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Hospira's business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of its products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of its facilities while Hospira remedies the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any adverse regulatory action, or action taken by Hospira to maintain appropriate regulatory compliance, could disrupt Hospira's business and have a material adverse effect on its sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, an adverse regulatory action with respect to any Hospira product, operating procedure or manufacturing facility could materially harm Hospira's reputation in the marketplace. Hospira may continue to acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products from third parties, form alliances, or dispose of businesses, and any of these actions may not be completed in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. As part of Hospira's business strategy, it may continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements, or may decide to dispose of some of its businesses. Hospira also may pursue strategic alliances to expand its product offerings and geographic presence. 17 Table of Contents Hospira may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement, strategic alliance, or disposition. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial and sales and marketing resources, may compete with Hospira for these strategic opportunities. Further, if Hospira is successful in securing such opportunities, the products and technologies that Hospira acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Hospira may incur greater than expected costs in connection with these transactions if it encounters difficulties or issues not known to it at the time of entering into the transaction. In addition, Hospira may enter markets in which it has no or limited prior experience. Hospira could experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges. Hospira has incurred, and may continue to incur, significant indebtedness in order to finance acquisitions, which may limit its operating flexibility. To finance the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira incurred substantial borrowings in 2007. This significant indebtedness requires Hospira to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to servicing its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies, and for general corporate purposes. In addition, this significant indebtedness has increased Hospira's vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates; and limited Hospira's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to its business and industry. Hospira's credit rating was downgraded by Standard and Poor's in 2007 and future downgrades are possible. Further downgrades will increase Hospira's cost of borrowing. As a result of the Mayne Pharma acquisition, Hospira's credit rating was downgraded in 2007 from BBB+ to BBB by Standard & Poor's. While Moody's maintained Hospira's credit rating at Baa3, which is the lowest investment grade rating, the rating outlook was changed from stable to negative. It is possible that Hospira's credit ratings could be further downgraded and fall below investment grade from both agencies. The credit ratings assigned to Hospira's indebtedness affect its ability to obtain new financing and the cost of financing and credit. The amount of interest payable under Hospira's loan facilities depends on Hospira's credit ratings. If Hospira's credit ratings were to be further downgraded, its borrowing costs would increase, and its access to unsecured debt markets could be limited. Ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Adverse market conditions may affect Hospira's ability to meet its future liquidity needs. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing volatility, and in some cases, have exerted negative pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain companies. Hospira's ability to access the credit and capital markets, and the related cost of borrowings, will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, the availability of credit, the strength of Hospira's credit rating, and Hospira's debt to capital levels. In addition, lending institutions, including those associated with Hospira's $375 million revolving credit facility which expires in 2010, may suffer losses due to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the global economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could affect the actual availability of credit under Hospira's 18 Table of Contents revolving credit facility, or Hospira's ability to obtain other financing on equally favorable terms. Insurance companies and other financial institutions may suffer losses, which could affect the cost and availability of insurance coverage. If one or more of these events occurred, Hospira's sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and Hospira's financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Acquisitions have increased Hospira's investment balances, intangible assets and goodwill balances, and a decline in the value of assets may adversely affect Hospira's financial position or results of operation. As a result of Hospira's acquisitions, intangible assets and goodwill have become significant. The values for these assets can be affected by factors, such as increased competition, changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings, disposition transactions, and business combinations. As a result of these factors or other events, Hospira may have to impair these assets or change estimated useful lives, which may have a material adverse effect on Hospira's financial position or results of operations. In addition, Hospira regularly reviews its investments, including equity and cost based investments, to determine when a significant event or change in circumstance has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. Hospira considers numerous factors, including factors affecting the investee, factors affecting the industry of the investee, and general equity market trends. Hospira also considers the length of time an investment's market value has been below carrying value and the near-term prospects for recovery to carrying value. The recent volatility in the global equity markets and other factors could adversely impact the fair value of Hospira's investments and, as a consequence, could result in a charge for an other than temporary decline in value, which could have an adverse effect on Hospira's financial position and results of operations. The manufacture of Hospira's products is highly exacting and complex, and if Hospira or its suppliers encounter problems manufacturing, storing or distributing products, Hospira's business could suffer. The manufacture of Hospira's products is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of drugs and medical devices. Problems may arise during manufacturing, storage or distribution of Hospira's products for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, manufacturing quality concerns, or problems with raw materials, electromechanical, software and other components, and environmental factors. If problems arise during the production, storage or distribution of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost sales, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. Problems with respect to the manufacture, storage or distribution of its products could materially disrupt Hospira's business and harm its sales and profitability. Hospira can experience higher costs to produce its products as a result of rising oil and gas prices. Hospira uses resins and other petroleum-based materials as raw materials in many of its products. Prices of oil, fuel, and other gases also affect significantly Hospira's costs for freight and utilities. Oil, fuel, and other gas prices are volatile and fluctuated significantly in 2008, and resulted in higher costs to Hospira to produce and distribute its products during certain periods. If costs increase and Hospira is unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, Hospira could experience lower margins and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Hospira depends on third parties to supply raw materials, electromechanical and other components, and third party finished goods. Hospira may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials, which could limit Hospira's ability to manufacture or sell products on a timely basis and could harm its profitability. The manufacture of Hospira's products requires raw materials and electromechanical and other components that must meet stringent FDA and other regulatory requirements. Some of these raw materials and other components are currently available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, the LifeShield®, CLAVE® and MicroCLAVE® connector products, which are components of administration sets that represented approximately 10% of Hospira's 2008 U.S. sales, rely on proprietary components that are available exclusively from ICU Medical. CLAVE® and MicroCLAVE® are registered trademarks of ICU Medical. In addition, Hospira purchases from single sources certain compounding material, polyvinyl-chloride resin and laminate film components for Hospira's production of certain flexible bags that it uses with its intravenous and pre-mixed solutions, as well as rubber components that it uses with some of its injectable pharmaceuticals. Hospira also obtains from single sources certain active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. Identifying alternative suppliers and obtaining approval to change or substitute a raw material or component, or the supplier of a finished product, raw material or component, can be time-consuming and expensive, as testing, validation and regulatory approval are necessary. In the past, Hospira's business has experienced shortages in some of the raw materials and components of its products. Continuous supply of petroleum-based products is especially risky due to the limited number of capable suppliers, limited production capacity and the effect of natural disasters. If suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials on a timely basis or if supply is otherwise disrupted, including by suppliers exiting the market, the manufacture and sale of Hospira's products may be disrupted, and its sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Hospira's cost-reduction and optimization activities have resulted, and may continue to result, in significant charges and cash expenditures. These activities may disrupt Hospira's business and may not result in the intended cost savings. Hospira's strategy, in part, relies on the establishment of a low-cost operating infrastructure to improve margins and cash flow to drive sustained growth. In order to realize potential savings on future manufacturing and other operating costs, Hospira has taken various actions to dispose of, or close, certain manufacturing, research and development, and other facilities. These actions have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, significant charges to Hospira's results of operations and cash expenditures. Cost-reduction and optimization activities are complex, and if Hospira does not successfully manage these activities, its operations and business could be disrupted and Hospira may incur more costs than anticipated. Future cost reduction and optimization activities, if taken, may result in additional charges and cash expenditures, which may be material. If Hospira does not realize the expected savings from its cost-reduction and optimization efforts, its profitability may be harmed. Hospira's manufacturing capacity could limit its ability to expand its business without significant capital investment. Although Hospira believes that it has adequate manufacturing capacity for its primary products, it may need to invest substantial capital resources to expand its manufacturing capacity if Hospira introduces new products, demand increases significantly for its products, or if it is successful in obtaining significant additional customers for its injectable pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing services business. Hospira may not be able to complete any such expansion projects in a timely manner or on a cost-effective basis, and may not realize the desired benefits of any such expansion. 20 Table of Contents As a result of cost-reduction efforts, Hospira has announced the planned closing of, or has sold, certain of its facilities. While Hospira believes it will have available manufacturing capacity to absorb, or the ability to outsource, the production at these facilities, there may be less available capacity at Hospira's facilities. If Hospira experiences an interruption in manufacturing at any of its primary manufacturing facilities, it may not be able to produce sufficient products for its customers. As a result, Hospira's sales, margins and profitability may be materially harmed. Hospira relies on the performance of its information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on Hospira's business and performance. Hospira operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction and other such events, which are beyond Hospira's control. Systems interruptions could reduce Hospira's ability to manufacture its products, and could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's operations and financial performance. The level of Hospira's protection and disaster-recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. Hospira conducts sales activity outside of the U.S. and is subject to additional business risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, that may cause its sales and profitability to decline. Because Hospira's products are sold outside the U.S., its business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Sales in markets outside the U.S. comprised approximately 32% of 2008 net sales. The risks associated with Hospira's operations outside the U.S. include: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change, which may delay or deter Hospira's international product commercialization efforts; differing local product preferences and product requirements; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations outside the U.S.; differing labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes at Hospira's union facilities; complying with U.S. regulations that apply to international operations, including trade laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; political and economic instability; and diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S. Hospira operates in many countries outside the U.S. through distributors. Its success will depend on the efforts and performance of such distributors, which are beyond Hospira's control. These risks could have an adverse effect on Hospira's ability to distribute and sell its products in markets outside the U.S. and on Hospira's profitability. Hospira is subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability and require Hospira to change its business practices and restrict its operations in the future. Hospira's industry is subject to various national, supranational, federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in national, federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans' Administration health programs and health programs outside the U.S. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Hospira to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Hospira's business and result in a material adverse effect on Hospira's sales, profitability and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents State and federal investigations and existing and future lawsuits relating to the alleged reporting of false or misleading pricing information in connection with Medicare and Medicaid programs could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's business, profitability and financial condition. Various state and federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice and various state attorneys general have pending investigations involving a number of pharmaceutical companies, including Abbott, for allegedly engaging in improper marketing and pricing practices with respect to certain Medicare and Medicaid reimbursable products, including practices relating to average wholesale price ("AWP"). In addition, a number of reported class-actions have been brought related to these practices. Hospira is named as a defendant in one of these suits brought by the State of Hawaii. There may be additional investigations or lawsuits, or additional claims in existing investigations or lawsuits, initiated with respect to these matters in the future. Hospira may be named as a subject or defendant in more of these investigations or lawsuits. Abbott will indemnify Hospira for liabilities associated with pending or future AWP investigations and lawsuits only to the extent that they are of the same nature as the lawsuits and investigations that existed against Abbott as of the spin-off date and relate to the sale of Hospira products prior to the spin-off. Hospira will assume any other losses that may result from these investigations and lawsuits related to Hospira's products. Hospira has not established any reserves related to these matters, and Hospira does not currently believe insurance coverage will be available for any resulting losses. These investigations and lawsuits could result in changes to Hospira's business practices or pricing policies, civil or criminal monetary damages, penalties or fines, imprisonment and/or exclusion of Hospira's products from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans' Administration health programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's business, profitability and financial condition. Income taxes can have an unpredictable effect on Hospira's results of operations and result in greater-than-anticipated liabilities. Hospira is subject to income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions, and its tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. Because Hospira's income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions during that period, which is inherently uncertain, its income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted. Moreover, changes in or interpretations of tax laws and regulations (including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings), changes in investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state and foreign tax audits, may affect Hospira's profitability and financial condition. Hospira is the beneficiary of tax exemptions in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S., where a portion of its income is earned. These tax exemptions have a significant impact on reducing Hospira's overall effective tax rate. If Hospira is unable to maintain these tax exemptions, Hospira's future profitability may be reduced. Changes in laws or governmental policies can affect the availability of these exemptions. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating tax positions that are subject to audits and adjustments. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite Hospira's belief that the tax return positions are fully supportable, positions taken by Hospira are likely to be challenged based on the applicable tax authority's determination of the positions. Although Hospira believes its tax provisions and related liability balances are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect its financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 22 Table of Contents Hospira may incur product liability losses and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Hospira's business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of drugs and medical devices and products. In the ordinary course of business, Hospira is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's business and reputation and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Hospira is responsible for all liabilities, including liabilities for claims and lawsuits, related to its business, whether they arose before or after the spin-off, other than certain liabilities relating to allegations that it engaged in improper marketing and pricing practices in connection with federal, state or private reimbursement for its products. As part of Hospira's risk management policy, Hospira carries third-party product liability insurance coverage, which includes a substantial retention or deductible that provides that Hospira will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of that retention or deductible. To the extent that any losses are within these retentions or deductibles, Hospira will be responsible for the administration and payment of these losses. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's profitability and financial condition. If Hospira is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its business and prospects could be harmed. Hospira relies on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, continuing technological innovation and, in some cases, patent, trademark and service mark protection to preserve its competitive position. A failure to protect Hospira's intellectual property could harm its business and prospects, and its efforts to protect its proprietary rights may not be adequate. Most of Hospira's products are not protected by patents or other proprietary rights, and have limited or no market exclusivity. Patent filings by third parties could render Hospira's intellectual property less valuable. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in certain countries outside the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also harm sales of Hospira's products by designing products that mirror the capabilities of those products or technology without infringing Hospira's intellectual property rights. If Hospira does not obtain sufficient international protection for its intellectual property, Hospira's competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit its growth and future sales. If Hospira infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties, Hospira may face legal action, increased costs and delays in marketing new products. Hospira seeks to launch generic pharmaceutical products either where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid or where products do not infringe the patents of others. To achieve a "first-to-market" position for generic pharmaceutical products, Hospira may take action, such as litigation, to seek to assert that its products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. These actions may result in increased litigation, which could be costly and time consuming, and which may not be successful. Hospira has made abbreviated new drug applications and certifications (known as "paragraph IV certifications" in the U.S.) that the relevant patents for existing products would not be infringed by a Hospira product, or were invalid or unenforceable, in the U.S. and equivalent filings in Canada. Claims filed by innovators challenging these paragraph IV certifications may delay or prevent the launch of the relevant products and result in additional costs. 23 Table of Contents Third parties may claim that Hospira's products are infringing their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could be costly and time-consuming and might require Hospira to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, if Hospira is able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms or at all. Hospira also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some of its products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on Hospira's profitability and financial condition. Changes in the buying patterns of some of Hospira's customers could adversely affect Hospira's operating results. During 2008, sales through the four largest wholesalers that supply products to many end-users accounted for approximately 38% of Hospira's global net sales. Hospira's profitability may be impacted by changes in the buying patterns of these wholesalers, or any other major distributor, retailer or wholesale customer. Their buying patterns may change as a result of end-use buyer purchasing decisions, end-use customer demand, pricing, or other factors, which could adversely affect Hospira's results of operations. Changes in the funded status or costs of Hospira's pension or post-retirement benefit plans could adversely affect Hospira's financial position and results of operations. The funded status of Hospira's pension and post-retirement benefit plans is subject to developments and changes in actuarial and other related assumptions. Decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly with respect to equity securities, and a change in the actual rate of return on plan assets can result in significant changes to the expected return on plan assets in the following year and, as a consequence, could result in higher funding requirements and/or net periodic benefit costs. In addition, changes in assumptions, such as discount rates, mortality rates, retirement rates, healthcare cost trend rates and other factors, may lead to significant increases in the value of the respective obligations. Assumption changes could affect the reported funded status of Hospira's plans and, as a result, could result in higher funding requirements and/or net periodic benefit costs. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on Hospira's financial position and results of operations. The stock market can be volatile and fluctuations in Hospira's operating results, as well as other factors, could cause its stock price to decline. During the past year, the stock market experienced excessive fluctuations, which would significantly impact the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These market fluctuations could adversely affect Hospira's stock price. Moreover, Hospira's sales and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter due to the risk factors set forth herein. Hospira's stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to its quarterly results and the impact of these risk factors on Hospira's operating results or financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 