Item 1A. Risk Factors The highly volatile nature of the industries we serve could harm our operating results. Our business and operating results depend in significant part upon capital expenditures by manufacturers in the semiconductor capital equipment, flat panel, medical, energy and research industries, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for such products. Historically, the industries we serve (in particular the semiconductor industry) have been highly cyclical, with recurring periods of over-supply of products that have had a severe negative effect on the demand for capital equipment used to manufacture such products. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience significant fluctuations in customer orders for our products through such cycles, including a continued decline in demand within the semiconductor capital equipment industry through the end of fiscal 2012. Slowdowns in the industries we serve have had, and future slowdowns may also have, a material adverse effect on our operating results. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, effectively manage our supply chain and motivate and retain employees. During periods of increased demand, we must increase manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demands, effectively manage our supply chain and attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of employees. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to the changes in our business environment, our results of operations will be harmed. Also, the cyclical and volatile nature of the industries we serve make future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult to estimate. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and any impairment of our relationships with these customers would adversely affect our business. A relatively small number of OEM customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our sales, and we expect this trend to continue. As a group, three customers accounted for 80%, 68% and 72% of our sales for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and we expect that our sales will continue to be concentrated among a small number of customers. Because of the small number of OEMs in the markets we serve, most of which are already our customers, it would be difficult to replace lost revenue resulting from the loss of, or the reduction, cancellation or delay in purchase orders by, any one of these customers. Our customer contracts generally do not require customers to place any orders. Consolidation among our customers, or a decision by any one or more of our customers to outsource all or most manufacturing and assembly work to a 11 Table of Contents single equipment manufacturer, may further concentrate our business in a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on an even smaller number of customers. For example, two of our largest semiconductor customers, Novellus Systems, Inc. and Lam Research Corporation, announced in June 2012 that they had completed a transaction pursuant to which they consolidated their businesses. Also, in November 2011, Applied Materials, Inc. completed the acquisition of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc., one of our customers. In addition, we have in the past lost business from customers who have taken the manufacturing of our products in-house. For example, we terminated our manufacturing services to FEI Company at the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2012. In addition, we announced in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 that one of our larger semiconductor equipment customers has decided to in-source a portion of their gas panel business. While this decision did not have a material impact on our revenue in fiscal 2012, it could have a negative quarterly impact of 7% to 9% on total revenue by the end of fiscal 2013. If we are unable to replace revenue from customers who determine to take subsystem assembly in-house, or if additional customers determine to in-source subsystem assembly, such events could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operation. In addition, by virtue of our largest customers’ size and the significant portion of revenue that our combined company derives from them, they are able to exert significant influence and pricing pressure in the negotiation of our commercial agreements and the conduct of our business with them. If we are unable to retain and expand our business with these customers on favorable terms, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We have had to qualify, and are required to maintain our status, as a supplier for each of our customers. This is a lengthy process that involves the inspection and approval by a customer of our engineering, documentation, manufacturing and quality control procedures before that customer will place volume orders. Our ability to lessen the adverse effect of any loss of, or reduction in sales to, an existing customer through the rapid addition of one or more new customers is minimal because of these qualification requirements. Consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected by the loss of, or any reduction in orders by, any of our significant customers. We are exposed to risks associated with weakness in the global economy. We rely to a significant extent on OEM customers, whose business, in turn, depends largely on consumer spending and capital expenditures by businesses. Continuing difficulties in the financial markets and uncertainty regarding the global economy continue to pose challenges to our business. Economic uncertainty and related factors, including unemployment, the European debt crisis, inflation and fuel prices, exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain of our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for products or services, which may reduce sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital, uncertain market conditions, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, leading to customers’ reduced research and development funding and/or capital expenditures and, in turn, lower orders from our customers and/or additional slow moving or obsolete inventory or bad debt expense for us. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products or require us to either procure products from high-cost suppliers, or if no additional suppliers exist, to reconfigure the design and manufacture of our products, and we may be unable to fulfill some customer orders. While past downturns in our business have been followed by periods of growth, this correlation may not occur in the future. We have significant existing indebtedness; the restrictive covenants under our credit agreement or other limitations on financing may limit our ability to expand or pursue our business strategy or make capital expenditures; if we are forced to prepay some or all of our indebtedness our financial position would be severely and adversely affected. We have significant outstanding indebtedness. On July 3, 2012, we refinanced our prior credit facility and entered into a new credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank. 12 Table of Contents The new credit agreement provided for a new term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $40.0 million and a new revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $40.0 million. On July 3, 2012, we borrowed $40.0 million under the new term loan and $39.8 million under the new revolving credit facility to finance our acquisition of AIT and repay Silicon Valley Bank as lender under our prior credit facility. As of December 28, 2012, the long-term portion of our outstanding indebtedness, net of debt issuance costs, under our new credit facility was $26.9 million, and the short-term portion was $48.7 million. Our new credit agreement contains certain covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to: • incur additional debt, including guarantees, or create liens; • pay dividends and make distributions in respect of our capital stock; • repurchase capital stock; • make investments or other restricted payments; • engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • make payments on subordinated indebtedness; and • engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, new lines of business or make other fundamental changes. The new credit agreement also requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with such financial or other covenants. For example, for the measurement periods ending in November and December of 2012, the Company was not in compliance with the minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio, the maximum consolidated leverage ratio or the minimum domestic cash balance covenants under the new credit agreement. On February 15, 2013, the Company and its lenders amended the credit agreement in order for the lenders to waive such non-compliance and to modify the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, effective January 30, 2013. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to meet the financial or other covenants under our amended credit agreement in subsequent periods. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which would adversely affect our financial health. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts, and any acceleration of amounts due under our credit agreement would have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance such obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, the new credit agreement has certain mandatory prepayment provisions, including annual prepayments of excess cash flow above certain thresholds. As long as our indebtedness remains outstanding, the restrictive covenants and mandatory prepayment provisions could impair our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies or obtain additional funding. Our dependence on our suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on both single-source and sole-source suppliers, some of whom are relatively small, for many of the components we use in our products. In addition, our customers often specify components of particular suppliers that we must incorporate into our products. Our suppliers are under no obligation to provide us with components. As a result, the loss of or failure to perform by any of these providers could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, the manufacturing of certain components and subsystems is an extremely complex process. Therefore, if a supplier were unable to provide the volume of components we require on a timely basis and at acceptable prices and quality, we would have to identify and qualify replacements from alternative sources of supply. However, the process of qualifying new suppliers for complex components is also lengthy and could delay our production, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Disruption in supply resulting from natural disasters, such as the recent earthquakes, tsunami and related events in Japan, may result in certain of our suppliers being unable to deliver sufficient quantities of components or raw materials at all or in a timely manner. If we, or our vendors, are unable to procure sufficient quantities of components or raw materials from suppliers, it could influence decisions by our customers to delay or cancel orders and decisions by our vendors to fulfill our purchase orders and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may also experience difficulty in obtaining sufficient supplies of components and raw materials in times of significant growth in our business. For example, we have in the past experienced shortages in supplies of various components, such as mass flow controllers, valves and regulators, and certain prefabricated parts, such as sheet metal enclosures, used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, one of our competitors manufactures mass flow controllers that may be specified by one or more of our customers. If we are unable to obtain these particular mass flow controllers from our competitor or convince a customer to select alternative mass flow controllers, we may be unable to meet that customer’s requirements, which could result in a loss of market share. We may not be able to respond quickly enough to increases in demand for our products. Demand shifts in the industries we serve are rapid and difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond quickly enough to an increase in demand. Our ability to increase sales of our products depends, in part, upon our ability to: • mobilize our supply chain in order to maintain component and raw material supply; • optimize the use of our design, engineering and manufacturing capacity in a timely manner; • deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion; • expand, if necessary, our manufacturing capacity; and • maintain our product quality as we increase production. If we are unable to respond to rapid increases in demand for our products on a timely basis or to manage any corresponding expansion of our manufacturing capacity effectively, our customers could increase their purchases from our competitors, which would adversely affect our business. We may not be able to fund our future capital requirements or strategic acquisitions from our operations, and financing from other sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We made capital expenditures of approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2012 and $4.0 million in fiscal 2011 related to our manufacturing facilities in the United States, China and Singapore. Capital expenditures only include AIT’s capital expenditures from its acquisition date of July 3, 2012. In addition, we paid approximately $75.3 million in cash and issued 4.5 million shares of our common stock valued at $29.6 million for a total purchase price of $104.9 million in connection with our acquisition of AIT. The cash portion of the merger consideration was financed through the new credit facility described above. The amount of our future capital requirements or strategic acquisitions will depend on many factors, including: • the cost required to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity; • the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts; • the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products; • the cost required to complete AIT’s enterprise resource planning implementation and to migrate AIT and its subsidiaries to our enterprise resource planning system; 14 Table of Contents • changing manufacturing capabilities to meet new customer requirements; • market acceptance of our products; and • our ability to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities and successfully negotiate the terms of such acquisitions. We had $54.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and no borrowings available under our new revolving credit facility for future borrowings as of December 28, 2012. In addition, as of December 28, 2012, $29.6 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations or to fund capital expenditures or other strategic acquisitions in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. Given our significant existing leverage, lack of additional availability under our current revolving line of credit and the potential tax effects of repatriating foreign cash, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing if our current domestic cash and cash flow from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities. We may not be able to obtain additional debt financing when and if necessary in a timely manner. Access to capital markets has, in the past, been unavailable to companies such as ours and there can be no assurance that we would be able to complete an equity or other financing with terms satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, equity financings could be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financings would likely involve additional covenants that restrict our business operations. Any potential strategic acquisition or significant capital expenditure may also require the consent of our existing lenders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, including potential acquisitions, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause volatility in our common stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future for a variety of reasons which may include: • demand for and market acceptance of our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the industries we serve or otherwise, often resulting in reduced sales during industry downturns and increased sales during periods of industry recovery; • overall economic conditions; • changes in the timing and size of orders by our customers; • strategic decisions by our customers to terminate their outsourcing relationship with us; • strategic consolidation by our customers; • cancellations and postponements of previously placed orders; • pricing pressure from either our competitors or our customers, resulting in the reduction of our product prices; • disruptions or delays in the manufacturing of our products or in the supply of components or raw materials that are incorporated into or used to manufacture our products, thereby causing us to delay the shipment of products; • decreased margins for several or more quarters following the introduction of new products, especially as we introduce new subsystems; 15 Table of Contents • delays in ramp-up in production, low yields or other problems experienced at our manufacturing facilities in China; • changes in design-to-delivery cycle times; • inability to reduce our costs quickly in step with reductions in our prices or in response to decreased demand for our products; • changes in our mix of products sold; • write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory; • one-time expenses or charges associated with failed acquisition negotiations or completed acquisitions; • announcements by our competitors of new products, services or technological innovations, which may, among other things, render our products less competitive; and • geographic mix of worldwide earnings. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Changes in the timing or terms of a small number of transactions could disproportionately affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Moreover, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, we would expect to experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. We have established, and as markets will allow, intend to expand our operations in Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with operating in a foreign country. Depending on market conditions, we intend to expand our operations in Asia, principally in China and Singapore. In addition, through our acquisition of AIT, we acquired a manufacturing facility in Cebu, Philippines. The carrying amount of our assets in Asia was $54.5 million as of December 28, 2012. We are exposed to political, economic, legal and other risks associated with operating in Asia, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • political, civil and economic instability; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • disruptions to our and our customers’ operations due to the outbreak of diseases, such as SARS and avian flu; • disruptions in operations due to China’s developing domestic infrastructure, including transportation and energy; • difficulties in developing relationships with local suppliers; • difficulties in attracting new international customers; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing distant international subsidiary and branch operations; • the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties; • legal systems potentially subject to undue influence or corruption; • difficulty in transferring funds to other geographic locations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings. 16 Table of Contents Our operations in Asia also subject us to U.S. laws governing the export of equipment. These laws are complex and require us to obtain clearances for the export to Asia of certain equipment. We may fail to comply with these laws and regulations, which could require us to cease use of certain equipment and expose us to fines or penalties. Over the past several years the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the imposition of confiscatory taxation policies, new restrictions on currency conversion or limitations on sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our Chinese operations, which could result in the partial or total loss of our investment in that country and materially and adversely affect our future operating results. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties and any significant reductions, cancellations or delays in customer orders could cause our revenue to decline and our operating results to suffer. Our revenue is difficult to forecast because we generally do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders and because of the short time frame within which we are often required to design, produce and deliver products to our customers. Most of our revenue in any quarter depends on customer orders for our products that we receive and fulfill in the same quarter. We do not have long-term purchase orders or contracts that contain minimum purchase commitments from our customers. Instead, we receive non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders from our customers. Occasionally, we order and build component inventory in advance of the receipt of actual customer orders. Customers may cancel order forecasts, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, reductions, cancellations or delays in customer order forecasts usually occur without penalty to or compensation from, the customer. Reductions, cancellations or delays in forecasted orders could cause us to hold inventory longer than anticipated, which could reduce our gross profit, restrict our ability to fund our operations and cause us to incur unanticipated reductions or delays in revenue. If we do not obtain orders as we anticipate, we could have excess component inventory for a specific product that we would not be able to sell to another customer, likely resulting in inventory write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because many of our costs are fixed in the short term, we could experience deterioration in our gross profit when our production volumes decline. The manufacturing of our products is highly complex, and if we are not able to manage our manufacturing and procurement process effectively, our business and operating results will suffer. The manufacturing of our products is a highly complex process that involves the integration of multiple components and requires effective management of our supply chain while meeting our customers’ design-to-delivery cycle time requirements. Through the course of the manufacturing process, our customers may modify design and system configurations in response to changes in their own customers’ requirements. In order to rapidly respond to these modifications and deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, we must effectively manage our manufacturing and procurement process. If we fail to manage this process effectively, we risk losing customers and damaging our reputation. We may also be subject to liability under our agreements with our customers if we or our suppliers fail to re-configure manufacturing processes or components in response to these modifications, which may lead to product defect claims by our customers. In addition, if we acquire inventory in excess of demand or that does not meet customer specifications, we could incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. These risks are even greater during the current extended period of macroeconomic uncertainty and as we continue to expand our business beyond gas delivery systems into new subsystems. In the current economic environment, certain of our suppliers may be forced out of business, which could require us to either procure products from higher-cost suppliers or, if no additional suppliers exist, reconfigure the design and manufacture of our products. This could limit our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents OEMs may not continue to outsource critical subsystems, which would adversely impact our operating results. The success of our business depends on OEMs continuing to outsource the manufacturing of critical subsystems. Most of the largest OEMs have already outsourced production of a significant portion of their critical subsystems. If OEMs do not continue to outsource critical subsystems for their capital equipment, our revenue would be significantly reduced, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we are unable to obtain additional business from OEMs, even if they continue to outsource their production of critical subsystems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. If our new products are not accepted by OEMs or if we are unable to obtain historical margins on our new products, our operating results would be adversely impacted. We design, develop and market critical subsystems to OEMs. The introduction of new products is inherently risky because it is difficult to foresee the adoption of new standards, coordinate our technical personnel and strategic relationships and win acceptance of new products by OEMs. We may not be able to recoup design and development expenditures if our new products are not accepted by OEMs. Newly introduced products typically carry lower gross margins than existing products for several or more quarters following their introduction. If any of our new subsystems are not successful in the market, or if we are unable to obtain gross margins on new products that are similar to the gross margins we have historically achieved, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The success of our merger with AIT will depend, among other things, on successfully maintaining or improving relationships with AIT’s pre-existing customers and motivating and retaining AIT’s employees, and any failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Ultra Clean and AIT will adversely affect the combined company’s future results. Our acquisition of AIT in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was a significant acquisition to us and the largest acquisition in our history. The success of our merger with AIT will depend, in large part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including combined capabilities and resources, new customers and, to a lesser extent, annual net operating synergies. To realize these anticipated benefits, the combined company must successfully integrate the businesses of Ultra Clean and AIT. Our efforts to fully integrate two companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company’s failure to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. In particular, like us, AIT’s revenue is concentrated in a small number of customers who do not have long-term purchase orders or contracts that contain minimum purchase commitments. AIT’s customers may react negatively to the combined business and reduce or cease doing business with the combined company in favor of our competitors or taking our business in-house. The failure to maintain important customer relationships could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined company. The integration also requires combining personnel with varied business backgrounds and combining businesses with different corporate cultures and objectives. AIT has its own unique business culture and business processes that may be disrupted in the process of integrating the businesses of the combined company. These disruptions could result in employee dissatisfaction and attrition, operational inefficiencies or increased operating costs and have a material adverse impact on the combined company’s results of operation and financial condition. Other potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: • Complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business, including integrating supply and distribution channels, computer and accounting systems, and other aspects of operations; 18 Table of Contents • Ensuring AIT and the combined company are in compliance with public company obligations within required periods, including the corporate governance and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to which AIT was not previously subject as a privately held company; • Integrating capabilities from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products; • Incorporating different financial and reporting controls, processes, systems and technologies into our existing business environment. • Potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger for which we do not have recourse under the merger agreement; and • Performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by integrating the companies’ operations. We may incur substantial costs associated with these activities and we may suffer other material adverse effects from our integration efforts, including write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities which could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. We cannot assure you that the combined company will be successful or will realize expected operating efficiencies, revenue and earnings accretion and other benefits currently anticipated to result from the merger. The dedication of management resources to such integration may also detract attention from the day-to-day business, and we may need to hire additional management personnel to manage our acquisitions successfully, resulting in increased operating costs. We may not be able to integrate efficiently the operations of other businesses acquired in the future, which would adversely affect the combined company’s future results. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services, technologies or market access. For example, we acquired Sieger Engineering, Inc. in June 2006 and AIT in July 2012. Management also evaluates other potential strategic transactions regularly with its advisors and our board of directors in the ordinary course of business. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions we are able to complete, we would likely face challenges in integrating the acquired business that are similar to those we may face in integrating AIT’s operations that are discussed in the preceding risk factor. These challenges may result in substantial costs, the failure to achieve expected synergies or other anticipated benefits and other effects which could adversely affect our results of operations in a material way. The dedication of management resources to such integration or divestitures may divert attention from our day-to-day business, and we may need to hire additional management personnel to manage our acquisitions successfully. Moreover, our recent acquisition of AIT could compound the challenges of integrating complementary products, services and technologies in the future. As discussed above, our integration with AIT is not complete, and the integration could divert a significant amount of management resources, resulting in less employee time and resources available to focus on negotiating and integrating new acquisitions. If we finance future acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. Even if an acquisition or other investment is not 19 Table of Contents completed, we may incur significant management time and effort and financial cost in evaluating such acquisition or investment, which has in the past had, and could in the future have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, due to the limited liquidity in the credit market and our existing leverage, the financing of any such acquisition may be difficult to obtain, and the terms of such financing may not be favorable. If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill, our net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. We had $56.7 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 28, 2012. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net tangible and finite lived, identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it could indicate a decline in our value and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. During the fourth quarter of each year, we perform an annual review of our goodwill to determine if it has become impaired, in which case we would write down the impaired portion of our goodwill. We also evaluate goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill, our operating results and net worth could be materially adversely affected. Our business is largely dependent on the know-how of our employees, and we generally do not have a protected intellectual property position. Our business is largely dependent upon our design, engineering, manufacturing and testing know-how. We rely on a combination of trade secrets and contractual confidentiality provisions and, to a much lesser extent, patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our proprietary rights. Accordingly, our intellectual property position is more vulnerable than it would be if it were protected by patents. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our proprietary rights, and, in the event we do not detect infringement of our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position in the market if any such infringement occurs. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies and know-how. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim we are infringing their intellectual property, which could subject us to litigation or licensing expenses, and we may be prevented from selling our products if any such claims prove successful. We have in the past and may in the future receive claims that our products, processes or technologies infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may be applicable to our products. Any litigation regarding our patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The complexity of the technology involved in our products and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development, manufacture and sale of certain of our products if any such claims prove successful. If we do not keep pace with developments in the industries we serve and with technological innovation generally, our products may not be competitive. Rapid technological innovation in the markets we serve requires us to anticipate and respond quickly to evolving customer requirements and could render our current product offerings and technology obsolete. Technological innovations are inherently complex. We must devote resources to technology development in 20 Table of Contents order to keep pace with such rapidly evolving technologies. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to design, engineer and manufacture products that meet the changing needs of our customers. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design, engineering and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. If we are unable to integrate new technical specifications into competitive product designs, develop the technical capabilities necessary to manufacture new products or make necessary modifications or enhancements to existing products, our business prospects could be harmed. The timely development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process which requires that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in the industries we serve, including new standards for our products; • accurately identify and design new products to meet market needs; • collaborate with OEMs to design and develop products on a timely and cost-effective basis; • ramp-up production of new products, especially new subsystems, in a timely manner and with acceptable yields; • successfully manage development production cycles; and • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others. The industries in which we participate are highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. Although we have not faced competition in the past from the largest subsystem and component manufacturers in the industries we serve, these suppliers could compete with us in the future. Increased competition has in the past resulted, and could in the future result, in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our operating results. We are subject to significant pricing pressure as we attempt to maintain and increase market share with our existing customers. Competitors may introduce new products for the markets currently served by our products. These products may have better performance, lower prices and achieve broader market acceptance than our products. Further, OEMs typically own the design rights to their products and may provide these designs to other subsystem manufacturers. If our competitors obtain proprietary rights to these designs such that we are unable to obtain the designs necessary to manufacture products for our OEM customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products, and reduce prices to increase market share. Moreover, there may be merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors that may provide our competitors and potential competitors an advantage over us by enabling them to expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Further, if one of our customers develops or acquires the internal capability to develop and produce critical subsystems that we produce, the loss of that customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The introduction of new technologies and new market entrants may also increase competitive pressures. 21 Table of Contents We must achieve design wins to retain our existing customers and to obtain new customers. New capital equipment typically has a lifespan of several years, and OEMs frequently specify which systems, subsystems, components and instruments are to be used in their equipment. Once a specific system, subsystem, component or instrument is incorporated into a piece of capital equipment, it will likely continue to be incorporated into that piece of equipment for at least several months before the OEM would be in a position to switch to the product of another supplier. Accordingly, it is important that our products are designed into the new capital equipment of OEMs, which we refer to as a design win, in order to retain our competitive position with existing customers and to obtain new customers. We incur technology development and sales expenses with no assurance that our products will ultimately be designed into an OEM’s capital equipment. Further, developing new customer relationships, as well as increasing our market share at existing customers, requires a substantial investment of our sales, engineering and management resources without any assurance from prospective customers that they will place significant orders. We believe that OEMs often select their suppliers and place orders based on long-term relationships. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from OEMs that are not currently our customers. Our operating results and potential growth could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve design wins with leading OEMs. Defects in our products could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause the unintended release of hazardous materials and result in potentially costly litigation. A number of factors, including design flaws, material and component failures, contamination in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and unknown sensitivities to process conditions, such as temperature and humidity, as well as equipment failures, may cause our products to contain undetected errors or defects. Problems with our products may: • cause delays in product introductions and shipments; • result in increased costs and diversion of development resources; • cause us to incur increased charges due to unusable inventory; • require design modifications; • result in liability for the unintended release of hazardous materials; • create claims for rework, replacement and/or damages under our contracts with customers; • decrease market acceptance of, or customer satisfaction with, our products, which could result in decreased sales and product returns; or • result in lower yields for semiconductor manufacturers. If any of our products contain defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged and customers might be reluctant to buy our products. We may also face a higher rate of product defects as we increase our production levels. Product defects could result in the loss of existing customers or impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, we may not find defects or failures in our products until after they are installed in a manufacturer’s fabrication facility. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. Our current or potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products. Hazardous materials flow through and are controlled by our products and an unintended release of these materials could result in serious injury or death. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages. 22 Table of Contents The technology labor market is very competitive, and our business will suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key executive officers, as well as our research, engineering, sales, manufacturing and administrative personnel, most of whom are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the technology industry is intense, and we operate in geographic locations in which labor markets are particularly competitive. Our business is particularly dependent on expertise which only a very limited number of engineers possess. The loss of any of our key employees and officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, any of our Senior Vice Presidents or any of the senior managers of AIT, or the failure to attract and retain new qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The challenges of employee retention may also increase during the integration process with AIT because of the necessity of combining personnel with varied business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures and objectives. The process of integrating operations and making such adjustments could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel. Employee uncertainty, lack of focus or turnover during the integration process may also disrupt our businesses. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. The process of designing, implementing, maintaining and updating our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention from management and company resources. For example, we are in the process of integrating AIT into our internal control framework, and we and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to evaluate and report on AIT’s internal controls beginning as of the fiscal year ended December 27, 2013. We anticipate that integrating AIT will require substantial resources, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully or effectively implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes at AIT. Even though we have concluded, and our independent registered public accounting firm has concurred, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as of December 28, 2012, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements, and our internal control may not be effective as of future periods. Failure to maintain existing or implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our international sales are denominated primarily, though not entirely, in U.S. dollars. Many of the costs and expenses associated with our Chinese subsidiaries and Singapore subsidiary are paid in Chinese Renminbi and Singapore dollars, respectively, and we expect our exposure to Chinese Renminbi and Singapore dollars to increase as we increase production in those facilities. In addition, purchases of some of our components are denominated in Japanese Yen and Euros. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies in which our 23 Table of Contents revenue or costs are denominated and the U.S. dollar may affect our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins. While fluctuations in the value of our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we do not currently hedge our foreign exchange exposure, and exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the future. If environmental contamination were to occur in one of our manufacturing facilities, we could be subject to substantial liabilities. We use substances regulated under various foreign, domestic, federal, state and local environmental laws in our manufacturing facilities. In addition, we may not be aware of all environmental laws or regulations that could subject us to liability in the U.S. or internationally. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental laws could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines or the suspension or termination of the production of our products, and thus a material adverse impact on our business. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss due to natural disasters, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by natural disasters, including fires and earthquakes. We have facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as our manufacturing facility in South San Francisco, California and our manufacturing and headquarters facilities in Hayward, California. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. In addition, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, extended power outages at our facilities. We do not carry insurance policies that cover potential losses caused by earthquakes or other natural disasters or power loss. Changes in tax rates or tax assets and liabilities could affect results of operations. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the: (1) applicable tax laws; (2) amount and composition of pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and from time to time we initiate amendments to previously filed tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations and amendments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, which requires estimates and judgments. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the tax authorities will agree with such estimates. We may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The market for our stock is subject to significant fluctuation. The size of our public market capitalization is relatively small, and the average volume of our shares that are traded is relatively low. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our ability to successfully introduce new products and manage new product transitions; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; 24 Table of Contents • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • announcements relating to any of our key customers, significant suppliers or the semiconductor manufacturing and capital equipment industry generally; • general market conditions; • the effects of war and terrorist attacks; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by the former owner of AIT may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. We issued 4.5 million shares of our common stock in connection with our acquisition of AIT, representing approximately 16% of our total common shares outstanding immediately following the completion of the merger. We entered into a lock-up and standstill agreement with AIT’s former owner, AIT Holding Company, LLC, and certain of its affiliates which prohibited any sales of the shares until January 3, 2013. After January 3, 2013, the holders are permitted to sell up to 25% of the shares in any given 90-day period over the subsequent twelve months, after which twelve month period there are no further contractual transfer restrictions on the shares, and the shares can be freely sold by their holders, subject to compliance with state and federal securities laws. As the lock-up restrictions expire, the shares issued in connection with the merger will thus become available for resale in the public market, and such sales could significantly decrease the market price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Additionally, the terms of the credit agreement we entered into in July 2012 restricts our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 