ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors address the material risks concerning our business. If any of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially and adversely affected and the market price per share of our common stock could decline significantly. Certain statements in the following risk factors constitute forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business We have recently failed to maintain compliance with the required maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio under our senior credit facilities and we were required to obtain waivers of such defaults from the lenders. In connection with recent waivers and amendments, our First Lien Credit Facility and our Priming Facility require us to sell our company by April 21, 2014 and April 30, 2014, respectively (the “Sale Process Completion Date”). The failure to sell our company by such date at a price sufficient to pay off all of our indebtedness under our First Lien Credit Facility and our Priming Facility would be an event of default. We recently entered into waivers and amendments to our senior credit facilities, pursuant to which the lenders waived any default arising as a result of our potential failure to be in compliance with certain maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio requirements. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and Capital Resources–Description of Credit Facilities–First Lien Credit Facility.” The lenders in our First Lien Credit Facility have waived any actual or potential defaults resulting from our failure to comply with the maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio through the Sale Process Completion Date. As of December 31, 2013, our maximum permitted total leverage ratio was 6.25 times consolidated indebtedness to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters. As of December 31, 2013, our total leverage ratio was 11.44 times consolidated indebtedness to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA. The maximum permitted total leverage ratio under the First Lien Credit Facility will decline to 5.17 times as of March 30, 2014 and thereafter. As of December 31, 2013, our minimum interest coverage ratio was 2.00:1.00 and our actual interest coverage ratio was 1.29:1.00. Failure to comply with the financial covenants (other than those waived through the Sale Process Completion Date), or any other non-financial or restrictive covenant, could create a default under our First Lien Credit Facility, assuming we are unable to secure a waiver from our lenders. Upon a default, our lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facilities, foreclose against their collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. We may be required to amend our senior credit facilities, refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or raise additional equity or file for bankruptcy protection. Further, based upon our actual performance levels, our senior secured leverage ratio, leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio requirements or other financial covenants could limit our ability to incur additional debt, which could hinder our ability to execute our current business strategy. If the lenders accelerate our debt, we may not have sufficient cash on hand or borrowing capacity to satisfy these obligations, and may not be able to pay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In such event, we would almost certainly be required to file for bankruptcy protection. In addition, a contraction in the availability of trade credit would increase cash requirements, and could impact our ability to obtain raw materials in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In July 2013, we engaged Moelis to assist us with the process of raising additional unsecured mezzanine indebtedness or other additional subordinated capital. With the help of Moelis, we also sought to secure a complete refinancing of our First Lien Credit Facility ($170.7 million, (net of unamortized debt discount of $1.1 million) outstanding as of December 31, 2013). We were unable to complete the refinancing on acceptable terms. Since we were not successful in obtaining additional subordinated debt, effective October 31, 2013, the margin on the First Lien Credit Facility increased by 50 basis points and the margin continues to increase by 50 basis points each quarter going forward that we do not raise the subordinated capital. Likewise, in accordance with recent amendments to our senior credit facilities, we agreed to pursue a sale process to sell our company and use the proceeds to repay our indebtedness. Under the terms of the First Lien Credit Facility and the Priming Facility, an acceptable sale must be completed by April 21, 2014 and April 30, 2014, respectively. We have engaged Moelis to assist in the sale process. There can be no assurance that we can conclude an acceptable sale and that if a sale is completed, that our creditors will receive payment in full or that our stockholders will receive any recovery. There is a high likelihood that any sale that takes place will be accomplished through a court-supervised bankruptcy process. If we fail to complete an acceptable sale transaction on the above timeline, we would be in default under our Priming Facility and our First Lien Credit Facility, which would almost certainly result in a bankruptcy filing. Furthermore, we may voluntarily seek, or be forced to seek, bankruptcy protection at any time. For more information regarding the sale process, see “–The sale process required under our senior credit facilities may not result in payment in full to our creditors or substantial recovery (if any) to our stockholders. The sale process may result in the diversion of management resources and could adversely affect certain key relationships.” 11 The sale process required under our senior credit facilities may not result in payment in full to our creditors or substantial recovery (if any) to our stockholders. The sale process may result in the diversion of management resources and could adversely affect certain key relationships. We recently entered into waivers and amendments to our senior credit facilities, pursuant to which the lenders waived any default arising as a result of our potential failure to be in compliance with certain maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio requirements. Under the amendments, we agreed to pursue a sale process to sell our company and use the proceeds to repay our indebtedness. We have engaged Moelis to assist in the sale process. Our ability to complete a sale transaction depends upon numerous factors, some which are outside of our control, including factors affecting the availability of financing for transactions or the financial markets in general. If we fail to complete an acceptable sale transaction, we would be in default under our Priming Facility and our First Lien Credit Facility and we would almost certainly voluntarily seek, or be forced to seek, bankruptcy protection. Even if we are successful in completing an acceptable sale, we cannot provide any assurance that our creditors will receive payment in full or that our stockholders will receive any recovery in connection with the sale and it is likely that any buyer that emerges may require our company to undergo a Chapter 11 filing in connection with a sale. In addition, during the sale process, our management resources may be diverted, and there is a risk that customers, strategic partners, employees and investors will react negatively to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and strategy and to the eventual outcome of this process. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had $201.6 million of total indebtedness under our credit facilities. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; · we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes such as capital expenditures; · we may be limited in our ability to borrow additional funds; · we may have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and · we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. In addition, we may incur more debt. Our First Lien Credit Facility and our Priming Facility do not completely prohibit us from incurring additional debt. This could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness described above. We expect to utilize borrowings under our Priming Facility and other financing arrangements and cash flow from operations, if any, to pay our expenses. We do not have the ability to borrow currently under our First Lien Credit Facility. Our ability to pay our expenses thus depends, in part, on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that our borrowing capacity or future cash flows will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and meet our other obligations. If we fail to generate cash flow in the future and do not have enough liquidity to pay our obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the Priming Facility and the First Lien Credit Facility, may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. 12 Our Priming Facility and our First Lien Credit Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain corporate actions. Our Priming Facility and our First Lien Credit Facility impose, and any future financing agreements that we may enter into will likely impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including certain limitations on capital expenditures. These restrictions may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities, including our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens or other encumbrances; · pay dividends or make certain other payments, investments, loans and guarantees; and · sell or otherwise dispose of assets and merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, our Priming Facility and our First Lien Credit Facility require us to meet certain financial ratios and financial condition tests. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Description of Long-Term Indebtedness.” Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these financial ratios and financial condition tests. Our failure to comply with these obligations could cause an event of default under our Priming Facility and our First Lien Credit Facility. As discussed below, we have failed to comply with some of these financial ratios and we had to obtain waivers from our lenders for such defaults. If an event of a default occurs going forward, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Priming Facility and our First Lien Credit Facility, including accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; the lenders could foreclose upon the assets securing our Priming Facility and First Lien Credit Facility; and the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. For information about recent waivers of default that we have obtained from the lenders under our senior credit facilities, see “–We have recently failed to maintain compliance with the required maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio under our senior credit facilities and we were required to obtain waivers of such defaults from the lenders. In connection with recent waivers and amendments, our First Lien Credit Facility and our Priming Facility require us to sell our company by April 21, 2014 and April 30, 2014, respectively (the ‘Sale Process Completion Date’). The failure to sell our company by such date at a price sufficient to pay off all of our indebtedness under our First Lien Credit Facility and our Priming Facility would be an event of default.” We have received an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report accompanying our financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 that refers to our covenant violations, significant losses from operations, working capital deficit and our ongoing sale process and expresses substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to refinance all or part of our existing debt. Substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern could further adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing at favorable terms, if at all, as such an opinion may cause investors to have reservations about our long-term prospects, and may adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors, strategic partners and employees. Further, substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern and uncertainty about our financial condition could cause trade creditors to discontinue offering credit to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot successfully continue as a going concern, our stockholders could lose their entire investment in us. For more information about our efforts to raise additional capital, refinance our existing debt, and complete an acceptable sale of our company, see “–We have recently failed to maintain compliance with the required maximum total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio under our senior credit facilities and we were required to obtain a waiver of such default from the lenders. In connection with recent waivers and amendments, our First Lien Credit Facility and our Priming Facility requires us to sell our company by April 21, 2014 and April 30, 2014, respectively (the ‘Sale Process Completion Date’). The failure to sell our company by such dates at a price sufficient to pay off all of our indebtedness under our First Lien Credit Facility and our Priming Facility would be an event of default.” The terms of any additional debt or subordinated capital may not be favorable to us or our stockholders and may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Our refinancing efforts, which have been unsuccessful to date, would likely involve debt financings that may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Such new financing, if available, would be at higher capital costs and may result, in certain circumstances, in more restrictive terms. Moreover, if we raise additional funds by issuing junior financing, we may be required to issue equity to the lenders in the form of warrants or other convertible securities, which may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. 13 Our business depends on the levels of capital investment expenditures by our customers, which are affected by factors such as the state of domestic and global economies, the cyclical nature of our customers’ markets, our customers’ liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. Our products are generally integrated into complex, large-scale projects undertaken by our customers. As such, demand for most of our products depends on the levels of new capital investment expenditures by our customers. The levels of capital expenditures by our customers, in turn, depend on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and geographies and expectations of future market behavior. The ability of our customers to finance capital investment may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. The businesses of many of our customers, particularly mining, waste management and liquid containment companies, are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns that may adversely impact our sales in the future as they have in the past. The demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, on overall levels of industrial production and construction, general economic conditions and business confidence levels. During economic downturns, our customers in these industries have historically tended to delay large capital projects, as they did during the global recession in 2007 through 2009, which had a negative effect on our results of operations. Additionally, fluctuating industrial demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may also reduce demand for our products. For example, reductions in copper, gold and silver prices generally depress the level of mining activity and can result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products among mining customers. Reduced demand for our products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While growth in North American and European markets has historically trended with GDP growth, emerging markets present significant growth opportunities. If we are not successful in shifting sales to the growing emerging and frontier markets, the growth in our sales could moderate. Additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment even during favorable conditions in their markets. Lingering effects of global financial markets and banking systems disruptions experienced in 2007 through 2009 continue to make credit and capital markets difficult for some companies to access. Difficulties in accessing these markets and the associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, even during favorable market conditions. In addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full or on a timely basis. Any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future sales depend, in part, on our ability to bid and win new orders. Our failure to effectively obtain future orders could adversely affect our profitability. A large portion of our sales and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new orders that are frequently subject to competitive bidding processes. Our sales from major projects depend, in part, on the level of capital expenditures in our principal end-markets, including the mining, waste management, liquid containment, coal ash containment and oil and gas industries. The number of such projects we win in any particular year fluctuates, and is dependent on the number of projects available and our ability to bid successfully for such projects. Proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as competitive position, market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. Increases in prices or disruptions in supply of our raw materials could adversely impact our financial condition. Pricing for our products is driven to a large extent by the costs of polyethylene resin and other raw materials, which significantly impact our operating results. In 2013, raw materials cost represented 79% of our cost of products. Our principal raw material, polyethylene resin, is occasionally in short supply and subject to price fluctuation in response to availability of manufacturing capacity, market demand and the price of feedstocks, including crude oil and natural gas. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to reflect changes in resin costs in the selling prices for our products. In the past we have generally been successful in managing increased raw material costs and have increased selling prices only when necessary, but we may not be able to do so in the future. 14 In general, we do not enter into long-term purchase orders for the delivery of raw materials. Our orders with suppliers are flexible and do not contain minimum purchase volumes or fixed prices. Accordingly, our suppliers may change their prices and other purchase terms on a monthly basis. We believe we have improved our raw material purchasing practices over recent years with the implementation of advanced pricing and forecasting tools, more centralized procurement and additional sourcing relationships, which has decreased our raw material costs. However, competitive market conditions in our industry and contractual arrangements with certain of our customers may limit our ability to pass the full cost of higher resin or other raw material pricing through to our customers promptly or completely. Even in cases in which our contractual arrangements with our customers permit us to pass on the cost of higher resin, enforcing such provisions may have a negative effect on our relationships with our customers. Raw material shortages or significant increases in the price of raw materials increase our costs and may reduce our operating income if we are not able to pass through all of the increases to our customers. Additionally, if any of our key polyethylene resin suppliers were unable to deliver resin to us for an extended period of time, or our current financial condition no longer allows us to purchase resin at competitively advantageous prices, we may not be able to satisfy our resin requirements through other suppliers on competitive terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increases in resin prices or a significant interruption in resin supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We do not currently enter into derivative instruments to offset the impact of resin price fluctuations and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. Our future growth depends, in part, on developing new applications and end markets for our products. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete. We place a high priority on developing new products, as well as enhancing our existing products, and our success depends on our ability to anticipate changes in regulatory and technology standards and to cultivate new applications for our products as the geosynthetics industry evolves. If we are unable to develop and introduce new applications and new addressable markets for our products in response to changes in environmental regulations, changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to introduce these products to other markets, our margin growth may be moderated. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any new or enhanced product will generate sufficient sales to justify the expenses and resources devoted to such product diversification effort. Unexpected equipment failures or significant damage to one or more of our manufacturing facilities would increase our costs and reduce our sales due to production curtailments or shutdowns. We currently operate eight manufacturing facilities on five continents. Our operations have been centrally managed and coordinated from our facility in Houston, Texas since 2010. An interruption or suspension of production capabilities at these facilities, or significant damage to one or more of our facilities, as a result of equipment failure, fire, explosions, long-term mechanical breakdowns, violent weather conditions or other natural disasters, work stoppages, power outages, war, terrorist activities, political conflict or other hostilities or any other cause, could result in our inability to manufacture our products, which would reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period, affect our relationships with our most significant customers and distributors and cause us to lose future sales. A natural disaster in the future could have a material adverse effect on our global operations. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from a natural disaster, in which case our unreimbursed losses could be substantial. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We sell our products in a very competitive marketplace that is characterized by a small number of large, global producers, and a large number of small, local or regional producers. The principal resin types that we use in our products are high-density polyethylene and linear low-density polyethylene. We compete both with companies that use the same raw materials that we do and with companies that use different raw materials. Additionally, companies that manufacture geosynthetic products that are not currently competing with us may decide to do so in the future. Competition is primarily based on product performance, quality and pricing. Pricing remains very competitive on a regional basis, with excess capacity in the industry impacting margins. For example, over the past 12 to 18 months, our competitors have added significant new capacity in North America, the results of which have negatively affected our margins. Moreover, our current and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial resources, name recognition, research and development, marketing and human resources than we have. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products that are better than our products. These companies may also prove to be more successful than we are in marketing and selling these products. Further, our customers may have substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern and apprehension about our financial condition, which could lead our customers to engage one of our competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully with any of these companies. Increased competition as to any of our products could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. 15 We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively. We may expand our business to address growth in demand for our products, as well as to capture new market opportunities. To manage the potential growth of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, increase manufacturing capacity and output and expand, train and manage our internal personnel. Furthermore, we will need to maintain and expand our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems or internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. Our inability to deliver our products on time could affect our future sales and profitability and our relationships with our customers. Our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for our products is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Our failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations may result in damage to existing customer relationships and result in the loss of future business. Any such loss of future business could negatively impact our financial performance and cause adverse changes in the market price of our common stock. We are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations that could harm our revenues and profitability. We have significant international operations, and we are in the process of increasing our international manufacturing and distribution capacity. Certain risks are inherent in international operations, including: · difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · foreign customers with longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; · tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings subject to withholding requirements; · imposition of tariffs, quotas, exchange controls or other trade barriers; · general economic conditions, political unrest and terrorist attacks; · exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; · increased complexity and costs of staffing and managing widespread operations; · import and export licensing requirements; · restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; · increased risk of corruption, self-dealing or other unethical practices among business partners in less developed regions of the world that may be difficult to deter or remedy; · difficulties protecting our intellectual property; and · difficulties associated with complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with U.S. laws. In addition, foreign operations involve uncertainties arising from local business practices, cultural considerations and international political and trade tensions. For example, our operations in Egypt were briefly suspended in early 2011 due to political unrest in that country. More recently civil and political unrest in Egypt has continued, which unrest could potentially impact future revenues and our ability to manufacture at times in our Egypt plant. Similarly, there has been recent civil and political unrest in Thailand, which could potentially impact future revenues and our ability to manufacture at times in our Thailand plant. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage effectively these risks or that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 16 Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks for conducting business in corrupt environments. Although a portion of our international business is currently in regions where the risk level and established legal systems are similar to those in the United States, we also conduct business in developing countries. We are focusing on increasing our sales in regions such as South America, Southeast Asia, India, China and the Middle East, which are less developed, have less stable legal systems and financial markets and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments than the United States and thus present greater political, economic and operational risks. We emphasize compliance with the law and have various internal policies and procedures in place and conduct ongoing training of employees with regard to business ethics and key legal requirements such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and similar anti-corruption laws and regulations in other jurisdictions. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper business advantage. Despite such policies and procedures and the FCPA training we provide to our employees, we cannot guarantee that our employees will adhere to our code of business conduct, other company policies or the anti-corruption laws of a particular nation. If we are found to be liable for FCPA or similar anti-corruption law or regulatory violations, whether due to our or others’ actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions and could incur significant costs for investigation, litigation, fees, settlements and judgments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We generate a significant portion of our sales, and incur a significant portion of our expenses, in currencies other than U.S. dollars. In 2013 and 2012, approximately 32% and 42% of our sales, respectively, were denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, and as of December 31, 2013, 30% of our assets and 16% of our liabilities were denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we are unable to match sales received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported sales from our international operations will be reduced because the applicable local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. We do not currently enter into derivative instruments to offset the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. Our operating results may be subject to quarterly fluctuations due to the possible delayed recognition of large orders in our financial statements. Our sales efforts for many of our products involve discussions with the end-users during the planning phase of projects. The planning, designing and manufacturing process can be lengthy. The typical planning and design phase for our projects ranges from six months to four years. As a result, there is often a delay between the investment of resources in developing and supplying a product and the recognition in our financial statements of the sales of the product. Our long sales cycle and the unpredictable period of time between the placement of an order and our ability to recognize the sales associated with the order make sales predictions difficult, particularly on a quarterly basis, and can cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The costs and difficulties of acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and technologies could impede our future growth and adversely affect our competitiveness. As part of our growth strategy, we may consider acquiring complementary businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of risks including integration of the acquired company with our operations and unanticipated liabilities or contingencies related to the acquired company. We cannot ensure that the expected benefits of any future acquisitions will be realized. Costs could be incurred on pursuits or proposed acquisitions that have not yet or may not close which could significantly impact our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. Additionally, after the acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Furthermore, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: · greater than expected costs and management time and effort involved in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions; · risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; · potential disruption of our ongoing business and difficulty in maintaining our standards, controls, information systems and procedures; 17 · entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; · the inability to successfully integrate the products, services and personnel of any acquisition into our operations; · a need to incur debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses; and · the realization of little, if any, return on our investment. If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, our growth may be hindered. Our ability to successfully operate and grow our global business and implement our strategies is largely dependent on the efforts, abilities and services of our senior management and other key employees. If we lose the services of our senior management or other key employees and are unable to find qualified replacements with comparable experience in the industry, our business could be negatively affected. Our future operations could also be harmed if we are unable to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales, operations, engineering and other technical personnel. Although we have employment and non-competition agreements with certain of our key employees, those agreements may not assure the retention of our employees, and we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any employment or non-competition agreement. In connection with our recent pursuit of a sale process, we have also adopted an incentive plan covering all of our senior executives other than our Chief Executive Officer. While the incentive plan provides an opportunity for senior executives to earn a bonus upon the closing of a sale of our company or in the event of a recapitalization of our company, the plan may not assure the retention of our senior executives. In addition, we do not have key person insurance on any of our senior executives or other key personnel. Particularly in light of recent changes in our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel positions, the loss of any member of our senior management team or other key employee could damage critical customer relationships, result in the loss of vital knowledge, experience and expertise, lead to unanticipated recruitment and training costs and make it more difficult to successfully operate our business, execute our business strategy and complete the sale process. For more information regarding the sale process, see “–The sale process required under our senior credit facilities may not result in payment in full to our creditors or substantial recovery (if any) to our stockholders. The sale process may result in the diversion of management resources and could adversely affect certain key relationships.” We may be adversely affected by environmental and health and safety regulations to which we are subject. We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws governing the protection of the environment, the exposure of persons and property to hazardous substances and occupational health and safety. These laws regulate, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the disposal and release of wastes and other substances into soil, air or water; and our obligations relating to the health and safety of our workers and the public. We are also required to obtain and comply with environmental permits and licenses for certain operations. We cannot assure you that we are at all times in full compliance with all environmental laws, permits or licenses. If we violate or fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to private party or governmental claims, the issuance of administrative, civil and criminal fines or penalties, the denial, modification or revocation of permits, licenses or other authorizations, the imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on our operations, including the cessation of operations, and requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial or other corrective action. In some instances, such actions could be material and could result in adverse impacts on our operations and financial condition. Certain environmental requirements, and the interpretation of those requirements by regulators and courts, change frequently and might also become more stringent over time. We therefore cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs or liabilities related to our future compliance with these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Because of the nature of our business, changes in environmental laws and the costs associated with complying with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also subject to laws governing the cleanup of contaminated property. Under these laws, we could be held liable for costs and damages relating to contamination of our past or present facilities and at third-party sites to which our facilities sent wastes or hazardous substances. The amount of such liability could be material. We cannot assure you that we will not have liability for any such contamination, nor can we assure you that we will not experience an accident or become liable for any other contamination that may have occurred in the past (including such liability to buyers of properties or businesses that we have sold). Product liability and indemnification claims could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our ability to maintain insurance may be limited, and our coverage may not be sufficient for all claims. Our products are used in, among other things, containment systems for the prevention of groundwater contamination. Our products are also used in significant public works projects. Accordingly, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims (including claims for strict liability and negligence) and claims for breach of contract in the event that the failure of our products or their installation results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, damage to the environment or personal injury. We agree in most cases to indemnify the site owner, general contractor and others for certain damages resulting from our negligence and that of our employees. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs to defend product liability and breach of contract claims or that we will not experience any material product liability losses or indemnification obligations in the future. Such costs, losses and obligations may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 Although we maintain insurance within ranges of coverage that we believe to be consistent with industry practice, this insurance may not be available at economically feasible premiums and may not be sufficient to cover all such losses. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to large deductibles. An unsuccessful outcome in legal actions and claims against us may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. We may experience significant warranty claims that increase our costs. We provide our customers of geosynthetic products with limited material product warranties. Our limited product warranties are typically five years but occasionally extend up to 20 years. These warranties are generally limited to repair or replacement of defective products or workmanship, often on a prorated basis, up to the dollar amount of the original order. In some foreign orders, we may be required to provide the customer with specified contractual limited warranties as to material quality. Our product warranty liability in many foreign countries is dictated by local laws in addition to the warranty specified in the orders. Failure of our products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources, product replacement or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have received warranty claims in the past, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. Warranty claims are not covered by insurance, and substantial warranty claims in any period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows as well as on our reputation. A significant portion of our business is conducted through foreign subsidiaries and our failure to generate sufficient cash flow from these subsidiaries, or otherwise repatriate or receive cash from these subsidiaries, could result in our inability to repay our indebtedness. In 2013 and 2012, 58% and 61%, respectively, of our sales were generated outside of North America. As of December 31, 2013, 78%, or $11.1 million, of our cash was held outside of the United States, including $2.1 million in Europe. In general, when an entity in a foreign jurisdiction repatriates cash to the United States, the amount of such cash is treated as a dividend taxable at current U.S. tax rates. Accordingly, upon the distribution of cash to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, we will be subject to U.S. income taxes. Although foreign tax credits may be available to reduce the amount of the additional tax liability, these credits may be limited based on our tax attributes. We have no plans to repatriate cash dividends. Our product deliveries have traditionally fluctuated seasonally and such fluctuations could affect our financial performance and covenant compliance. Due to the significant amount of our projects in the northern hemisphere (North America, Europe and portions of Asia), our operating results are impacted by seasonal weather patterns in those markets. In the northern hemisphere, the greatest volume of geosynthetic product deliveries typically occurs during the summer and fall of each year due to milder weather, which results in seasonal fluctuations of sales. As a result, our sales in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year have historically been lower than sales in the second and third quarters. We may not be able to use our manufacturing capacity at our various locations to mitigate the impact of seasonal fluctuations on our manufacturing and delivery schedules. Changes in our quarterly operating results due to seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our financial performance and covenant compliance. We rely primarily on trade secrets and contractual restrictions, and not patents, to protect our proprietary rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and protecting our rights or defending against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Our commercial success depends on our proprietary information and technologies. We rely primarily on a combination of know-how, trade secrets, trademarks and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. We own several patents addressing limited aspects of our products. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be insufficient. Failure to protect, monitor and control the use of our existing intellectual property rights could cause us to lose our competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. Although we enter into confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to protect our intellectual property rights, these agreements could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets. It is possible that our competitors or others could independently develop the same or similar technologies or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technologies. In such cases, our trade secrets would not prevent third parties from competing with us. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, third parties or employees may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could also harm our business and results of operations. From time to time, we may discover such violations of our intellectual property rights. For example, we are aware of third-party use of our trademarks and designs, and there may be other third parties using trademarks or names similar to ours of whom we are unaware. Monitoring unauthorized use of intellectual property rights can be difficult and expensive, and adequate remedies may not be available. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 19 In addition, third parties may claim that our products infringe or otherwise violate their patents or other proprietary rights and seek corresponding damages or injunctive relief. Defending ourselves against such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could subject us to significant liability to third parties (potentially including treble damages) or temporary or permanent injunctions prohibiting the manufacture or sale of our products, the use of our technologies or the conduct of our business. Any adverse outcome could also require us to seek licenses from third parties (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all) or make substantial one-time or ongoing royalty payments. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until such litigation is resolved. In addition, we may not have insurance coverage in connection with such litigation and may have to bear all costs arising from any such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Although we make efforts to develop and protect our intellectual property, the validity, enforceability and commercial value of our intellectual property rights may be reduced or eliminated by the discovery of prior inventions by third parties, the discovery of similar marks previously used by third parties, non-use or non-enforcement by us, the successful independent development by third parties of the same or similar confidential or proprietary innovations or changes in the supply or distribution chains that render our rights obsolete. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to opposition proceedings with respect to applications for registrations of our intellectual property, including but not limited to our trade names and trademarks. As we rely in part on brand names and trademark protection to enforce our intellectual property rights, barriers to our registration of our brand names and trademarks in various countries may restrict our ability to promote and maintain a cohesive brand through our key markets. We are dependent on information systems and information technology, and a major interruption could adversely impact our operations and financial results. We use critical information systems to operate, monitor and manage business on a day-to-day basis. Any disruption to these information systems could adversely impact operations and result in increased costs and an inability to maintain financial controls or issue financial reports. Information systems could be interrupted, delayed or damaged by any number of factors, including natural disasters, telecommunications failures, power loss, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses or physical or electronic security breaches. These or other events could cause loss of critical data, or prevent us from meeting our operating and financial commitments. Although we have business continuity plans in place to reduce the negative impact of information technology system failures on our operations, these plans may not be completely effective. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state and local taxing authorities and adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are not currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service. However, an unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby negatively and adversely impacting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. 20 In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An “emerging growth company” can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to “opt out” of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five full fiscal years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (ii) the date that we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock There is a high likelihood that any sale that takes place will be accomplished through a court-supervised bankruptcy process. As described above, we are undergoing a sale process mandated by our senior lenders. There is a high likelihood that any sale that takes place will be accomplished through a court-supervised bankruptcy process. There is a high likelihood that any court-supervised sale process will result in the cancellation of all of our common stock for no value. Persons trading in our common stock at this juncture do so at their own risk. Our common stock has been delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders to sell our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. On February 28, 2014, we received notification from NYSE Regulation, Inc. stating that, because we were not in compliance with certain continued listing standards, NYSE Regulation, Inc. intended to delist our common stock from the NYSE by filing a delisting application with the SEC. We did not request an appeal of the delisting determination. Effective March 5, 2014, our common stock was delisted from the NYSE and, on the same day, trading of our common stock commenced on the OTCQB Marketplace under the trading symbol “GSEH.” The OTCQB Marketplace is a market tier operated by OTC Markets Group Inc. for over-the-counter traded companies. We can provide no assurance that any trading market for our common stock will exist on the OTCQB Marketplace or that current trading levels will be sustained or not diminish. Stocks traded on the over-the-counter markets are typically less liquid than stocks that trade on the NYSE. Trading on the over-the-counter market may negatively affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock and could result in larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock. Stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares of our common stock due to the delisting. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers, strategic partners and employees and the loss of investor and media interest in our company and common stock. Our stock price has been volatile and has declined significantly over the last nine months and may continue to be volatile or may decline further regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid. The stock market has experienced and continues to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the underlying businesses. Given that we are a fairly new public company and our common stock now trades on an over-the-counter market, these fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our common stock. In addition, many industries have experienced a period of significant disruption characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various companies, which led to increased volatility in securities prices and a significant level of intervention from the U.S. and other governments in securities markets. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 21 In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: · quarterly variations in our operating results compared to market expectations; · size of the public float; · stock price performance of our competitors; · fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; · actions by competitors; · changes in senior management or key personnel; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · negative earnings or other announcements by us or other industrial companies; · downgrades in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our competitors; · issuances of capital stock; and · global economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Numerous factors affect our business and cause variations in our operating results and affect our sales, including overall economic trends; our ability to identify and respond effectively to changing legislative, regulatory or industry requirements; actions by competitors; pricing; our ability to source and distribute products effectively; changes in environmental and safety laws and regulations; and weather conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many industrial companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Our common stock is a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, it may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information about the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of stockholders to sell their shares. Our private equity sponsor exerts significant influence over us, and their interests may not coincide with yours. CHS and its affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, 53.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, CHS and its affiliates could control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our Stockholders Agreement (as described in Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence–Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement”), CHS has the ability to designate one member of our Board of Directors and to require all other parties to the Stockholders Agreement to sell their respective shares of our common stock, on substantially the same terms and conditions as CHS is selling its shares, in the event that CHS approves a sale of us. In addition, CHS has the ability to designate a non-voting observer reasonably acceptable to us to attend any meetings of our Board of Directors. The parties to the Stockholders Agreement, other than CHS, own in the aggregate 1.5% of our outstanding common stock. The interests of CHS may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change in control would benefit our stockholders. This significant concentration of stock ownership and voting power may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. See Item 12, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters,” and Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence,” for further information about the equity interests held by CHS and its affiliates. 22 Moreover, our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that may from time to time be presented to CHS or its affiliates (other than us), subsidiaries, officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members, partners and employees and that may be a business opportunity for any such person, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. Neither CHS nor any of its affiliates (other than us) has any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us. Future sales or issuances of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that such sales or issuances may occur, may depress our stock price. Sales or issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales or issuances may occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. CHS, the beneficial owner of a majority of our outstanding common stock, has the right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions, to require us to register their shares of our common stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and certain other holders of our common stock will have the right to participate in future registrations of securities by us. Registration of any of these outstanding shares of common stock would result in such shares becoming freely tradable without compliance with Rule 144 upon effectiveness of the registration statement. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of our common stock or substantially similar securities, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. Further, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering all shares of our common stock subject to outstanding options as well as all shares of our common stock that may be covered by additional options and other awards granted under our existing equity incentive plans. See Item 11, “Executive Compensation - Compensation Discussion and Analysis Elements of Compensation–Long-Term Equity Incentives.” These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to certain restrictions, including restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by affiliates. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions, which in some cases do not apply to CHS unless it holds less than 10% of our outstanding common stock, among other things: · authorize our Board of Directors, without further action by the stockholders, to issue blank check preferred stock; · limit the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; · require advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; · authorize our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to amend our amended and restated bylaws; · limit the determination of the number of directors on our Board of Directors and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on our Board of Directors to our Board of Directors then in office; and · subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability to engage in certain business combinations with an “interested stockholder” for a three-year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 23 If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Additionally, our operating subsidiaries are currently restricted from paying cash dividends by the agreements governing their indebtedness, and we expect these restrictions to continue in the future. Accordingly, if you purchase shares of our common stock, realization of a gain on your investment will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with complying with certain requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules implemented by the SEC and any securities exchange on which our common stock trades. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our Board committees or as our executive officers. Effective March 5, 2014, our common stock was delisted from the NYSE. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. We have determined that our internal controls relating to revenue recognition are currently ineffective. As discussed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” our management team, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. They concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we identified a material weakness relating to inadequate revenue recognition procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any material weakness in our internal controls over revenue recognition procedures could impair our ability to report our financial position and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner. 24 ITEM IB. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 