ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR MBS PORTFOLIO Interest rate mismatches between our adjustable-rate securities and our borrowings used to fund purchases of our mortgage-related securities may reduce net income or result in a loss during periods of changing interest rates. Our portfolio of MBS includes adjustable rate MBS and hybrid adjustable rate MBS, and the mix of these securities in the portfolio may be increased or decreased over time. Additionally, the interest rates of these securities may vary over time based on changes in a short-term interest rate index, of which there are many. We finance our acquisitions of adjustable-rate securities in part with borrowings that have interest rates based on indices and repricing terms similar to, but perhaps with shorter maturities than, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of the adjustable-rate securities. Short-term interest rates are ordinarily lower than longer-term interest rates. During periods of changing interest rates, this interest rate mismatch between our portfolio assets and liabilities could reduce or eliminate net income and dividend yield and could cause us to suffer a loss. In particular, in a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in, or elimination of, net income or a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings adjust faster than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate securities. Interest rate fluctuations will also cause variances in the yield curve, which may reduce our net income. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the "yield curve." If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on assets. Because our assets may bear interest based on longer-term rates than its borrowings, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease net income and the market value of mortgage loan assets. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested in mortgage loans, the spread between the yields of the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur operating losses. A significant portion of our portfolio consists of fixed-rate MBS, which may cause us to experience reduced net income or a loss during periods of rising interest rates. Our portfolio includes or may include fixed-rate and balloon maturity MBS. Because the interest rate on a fixed-rate mortgage never changes, over time there can be a divergence between the interest rate on the loan and the current market interest rates. We fund our acquisition of fixed-rate MBS with short-term repurchase agreements and term loans. During periods of rising interest rates, our costs associated with borrowings used to fund the acquisition of fixed-rate assets are subject to increases while the income we earn from these assets remains substantially fixed. This would reduce and could eliminate the net interest spread between the fixed-rate MBS that we purchase and the borrowings we use to purchase them, which would reduce net interest income and could cause us to suffer a loss. Increased levels of prepayments on the mortgages underlying our mortgage-related securities might decrease net interest income or result in a net loss. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the mortgage-related securities that we acquire. We generally receive payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When we acquire mortgage-related securities, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate generating an expected yield. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected it results in corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities that are faster than expected. Faster-than-expected prepayments could potentially harm the results of our operations in various ways, including the following: • We seek to purchase some mortgage-related securities that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we will be required to pay a premium over the market value to acquire the security. In accordance with applicable accounting rules, we will be required to amortize this premium over the term of the mortgage-related security. If the mortgage-related security is prepaid in whole or in part prior to its maturity date, however, we must expense any unamortized premium that remained at the time of the prepayment. • A portion of our adjustable-rate MBS may bear interest at rates that are lower than their fully indexed rates, which are equivalent to the applicable index rate plus a margin. If an adjustable-rate mortgage-backed security is prepaid prior to or soon after the time of adjustment to a fully-indexed rate, we will have held that mortgage-related security while it was less profitable and lost the opportunity to receive interest at the fully indexed rate over the remainder of its expected life. • If we are unable to acquire new mortgage-related securities to replace the prepaid mortgage-related securities, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may suffer and we could incur losses. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by other factors, including, without limitation, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on adjustable-rate and fixed-rate mortgage loans. While we seek to minimize prepayment risk, we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment when selecting investments. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements that would harm our results of operations. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements are generally adjustable and correspond to short-term interest rates, such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: • the movement of interest rates; • the availability of financing in the market; and • the value and liquidity of our mortgage-related securities. Most of the our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. If the interest rates on these repurchase agreements increase, our results of operations will be harmed and we may incur losses. Interest rate caps on our adjustable-rate MBS may reduce our income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. Adjustable-rate MBS are typically subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through the maturity of a mortgage-backed security. Our borrowings typically are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while caps could limit the interest rates on our adjustable-rate MBS. This problem is magnified for adjustable-rate MBS that are not fully indexed. Further, some adjustable-rate MBS may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we may receive less cash income on adjustable-rate MBS than necessary to pay interest on our related borrowings. Interest rate caps on our MBS could reduce our net interest income or cause us to suffer a net loss if interest rates were to increase beyond the level of the caps. We may not be able to purchase interest rate caps at favorable prices, which could cause us to suffer a loss in the event of significant changes in interest rates. Our policies permit us to purchase interest rate caps to help us reduce our interest rate and prepayment risks associated with investments in mortgage-related securities. This strategy potentially helps us reduce our exposure to significant changes in interest rates. A cap contract is ultimately no benefit to us unless interest rates exceed the target rate. If we purchase interest rate caps but do not experience a corresponding increase in interest rates, the costs of buying the caps would reduce our earnings. Alternatively, we may decide not to enter into a cap transaction due to its expense, and we would suffer losses if interest rates later rise substantially. Our ability to engage in interest rate hedging transactions is limited by the REIT gross income requirements. See "Legal and Tax Risks" below. Our leverage strategy increases the risks of our operations, which could reduce net income and the amount available for distributions to stockholders or cause us to suffer a loss. We generally seek to borrow between eight and twelve times the amount of our equity, although at times our borrowings may be above or below this amount. For purposes of this calculation, we treat trust preferred securities as an equity capital equivalent. We incur this indebtedness by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our mortgage-related securities. Our total indebtedness, however, is not expressly limited by our policies and will depend on our and our prospective lenders’ estimates of the stability of our portfolio's cash flow. As a result, there is no limit on the amount of leverage that we may incur. We face the risk that we might not be able to meet our debt service obligations or a lender's margin requirements from our income and, to the extent we cannot, we might be forced to liquidate some of our assets at unfavorable prices. Our use of leverage amplifies the risks associated with other risk factors, which could reduce our net income and the amount available for distributions to stockholders or cause us to suffer a loss. For example: • A majority of our borrowings are secured by our mortgage-related securities, generally under repurchase agreements. A decline in the market value of the mortgage-related securities used to secure these debt obligations could limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring us to pledge additional collateral to secure our borrowings. In that situation, we could be required to sell mortgage-related securities under adverse market conditions in order to obtain the additional collateral required by the lender. If these sales are made at prices lower than the carrying value of the mortgage-related securities, we would experience losses. • A default under a mortgage-related security that constitutes collateral for a loan could also result in an involuntary liquidation of the mortgage-related security, including any cross-collateralized mortgage-related securities. This would result in a loss to us of the difference between the value of the mortgage-related security upon liquidation and the amount borrowed against the mortgage-related security. • To the extent we are compelled to liquidate qualified REIT assets to repay debts, our compliance with the REIT rules regarding our assets and our sources of income could be negatively affected, which would jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. Losing our REIT qualification would cause us to lose tax advantages applicable to REITs and would decrease profitability and distributions to stockholders. • If we experience losses as a result of our leverage policy, such losses would reduce the amounts available for distribution to stockholders. An increase in interest rates may adversely affect our stockholder’s equity, which may harm the value of our Class A Common Stock. Increases in interest rates may negatively affect the fair market value of our mortgage-related securities. Our fixed-rate MBS will generally be more negatively affected by such increases. In accordance with GAAP, we will be required to reduce the carrying value of our mortgage-related securities by the amount of any decrease in the fair value of mortgage-related securities compared to amortized cost. If unrealized losses in fair value occur, we will have to either reduce current earnings or reduce stockholders' equity without immediately affecting current earnings, depending on how we classify the mortgage-related securities under GAAP. In either case, our stockholder’s equity will decrease to the extent of any realized or unrealized losses in fair value. We depend on borrowings to purchase mortgage-related securities and reach our desired amount of leverage. If we fail to obtain or renew sufficient funding on favorable terms or at all, we will be limited in our ability to acquire mortgage-related securities, which will harm our results of operations. We depend on borrowings to fund acquisitions of mortgage-related securities and reach our desired amount of leverage. Accordingly, our ability to achieve our investment and leverage objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. In addition, we must be able to renew or replace our maturing borrowings on a continuous basis. We depend on many lenders to provide the primary credit facilities for our purchases of mortgage-related securities. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings on favorable terms or at all, we may have to sell our mortgage-related securities under adverse market conditions, which would harm our results of operations and may result in permanent losses. Possible market developments could cause our lenders to require it to pledge additional assets as collateral. If our assets were insufficient to meet the collateral requirements, we might be compelled to liquidate particular assets at inopportune times and at unfavorable prices. Possible market developments, including a sharp or prolonged rise in interest rates, a change in prepayment rates or increasing market concern about the value or liquidity of one or more types of mortgage-related securities in which our portfolio is concentrated, might reduce the market value of our portfolio, which might cause our lenders to require additional collateral. Any requirement for additional collateral might compel us to liquidate our assets at inopportune times and at unfavorable prices, thereby harming our operating results. If we sell mortgage-related securities at prices lower than the carrying value of the mortgage-related securities, we would experience losses. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral in the event of a bankruptcy filing. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. Because the assets that we acquire might experience periods of illiquidity, we might be prevented from selling our mortgage-related securities at favorable times and prices, which could cause us to suffer a loss and/or reduce distributions to stockholders. Although we generally plan to hold our mortgage-related securities until maturity, there may be circumstances in which we sell certain of these securities. Mortgage-related securities generally experience periods of illiquidity. As a result, we may be unable to dispose of our mortgage-related securities at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. The lack of liquidity might result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. The illiquidity of mortgage-related securities may harm our results of operations and could cause us to suffer a loss and/or reduce distributions to stockholders. Competition might prevent us from acquiring mortgage-related securities at favorable yields, which could harm our results of operations. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire mortgage-related securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring mortgage-related securities, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related securities, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. Additionally, many of our competitors are not subject to REIT tax compliance or required to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may not be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related securities at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs, which would harm our results of operations. Our investment strategy involves risk of default and delays in payments, which could harm our results of operations. We may incur losses if there are payment defaults under our mortgage-related securities. Our mortgage-related securities will be government or agency certificates. Agency certificates are mortgage-related securities issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. Payment of principal and interest underlying securities issued by Ginnie Mae are guaranteed by the U.S. Government. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage-related securities are guaranteed as to payment of principal and interest by the respective agency issuing the security. It is possible that guarantees made by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae would not be honored in the event of default on the underlying securities. Legislation may be proposed to change the relationship between certain agencies, such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, and the federal government. This may have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of mortgage-related securities issued by these agencies. As a result, such legislation could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac mortgage-related securities. We currently intend to continue to invest in such securities, even if such agencies' relationships with the federal government changes. If we fail to maintain relationships with AVM, L.P. and its affiliate, III Associates, or if we do not establish relationships with other repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative service providers, we may have to reduce or delay our operations and/or increase our expenditures. We have engaged AVM, L.P. and its affiliate, III Associates, to provide us with certain repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative services. If we are unable to maintain relationships with AVM and III Associates or we are unable to establish successful relationships with other repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative service providers, we may have to reduce or delay our operations and/or increase our expenditures and undertake the repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative services on our own. LEGAL AND TAX RISKS If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and may face a substantial tax liability. We intend to operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, REIT qualification involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis) established under technical and complex provisions of the Code, as amended, or regulations under the Code, for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. The determination that we qualify as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. Accordingly, it is not certain we will be able to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Even a technical or inadvertent violation of the REIT requirements could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might change the tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having a retroactive effect that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders, and could force us to liquidate assets at inopportune times, causing lower income or higher losses than would result if these assets were not liquidated; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our REIT qualification, and our cash available for distribution to its stockholders therefore would be reduced for each of the years in which we do not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. We may also be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to our stockholders at unfavorable times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely with the goal of maximizing profits. In addition, the REIT provisions of the Code impose a 100% tax on income from "prohibited transactions." Prohibited transactions generally include sales of assets that constitute inventory or other property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than foreclosure property. This 100% tax could impact our ability to sell mortgage-related securities at otherwise opportune times if we believe such sales could result in our being treated as engaging in prohibited transactions. However, we would not be subject to this tax if we were to sell assets through a taxable REIT subsidiary. We will also be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements between us and our taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively, which could in turn leave us more exposed to the effects of adverse changes in interest rates. The REIT provisions of the Code may substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-related securities and related borrowings by generally requiring us to limit our income in each year from qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified REIT real estate assets, to less than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate gross income from non-qualified hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may in the future have to limit the use of hedges or implement hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur. If we fail to satisfy the 25% or 5% limitations, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect and we meet certain other technical requirements, we could lose our REIT qualification. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of income in excess of certain thresholds, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. Dividends paid by REITs are not qualified dividends eligible for reduced tax rates. In general, the maximum federal income tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid to individual U.S. stockholders is 15% (through 2008). Dividends paid by REITs, however, are generally not qualified dividends eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends, which are usually qualified dividends, could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our Class A Common Stock. To maintain our REIT qualification, we may be forced to borrow funds on unfavorable terms or sell our MBS portfolio securities at unfavorable prices to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes from, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our net taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our mortgage-related securities at unfavorable prices or find other sources of funds in order to meet the REIT distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. These other sources could increase our costs or reduce equity and reduce amounts available to invest in mortgage-related securities. Reliance on legal opinions or statements by issuers of mortgage-related securities could result in a failure to comply with REIT gross income or asset tests. When purchasing mortgage-related securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether and to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the REIT gross income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and could result in significant corporate-level tax. Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect us and our stockholders. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Our business may be harmed by changes to the laws and regulations affecting us, including changes to securities laws and changes to the Code provisions applicable to the taxation of REITs. New legislation may be enacted into law, or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could adversely affect us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. We may recognize excess inclusion income that would increase the tax liability of our stockholders. If we recognize excess inclusion income and that is allocated to our stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, such income would be subject to federal income tax withholding without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. In addition, to the extent our stock is owned by tax-exempt "disqualified organizations," such as government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business taxable income, although Treasury regulations have not yet been drafted to clarify the law, we may incur a corporate level tax at the highest applicable corporate tax rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income that is allocable to such disqualified organizations. Excess inclusion income could result if we hold a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. Excess inclusion income also could be generated if we were to issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bore a relationship to the payments received on our mortgage-related securities securing those debt obligations (i.e., if we were to own an interest in a taxable mortgage pool). However, Treasury regulations have not been issued regarding the allocation of excess inclusion income to stockholders of a REIT that owns an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. We do not expect to acquire significant amounts of residual interests in REMICs, other than interests owned by our taxable REIT subsidiary, which is treated as a separate taxable entity for these purposes. We intend to structure borrowing arrangements in a manner designed to avoid generating significant amounts of excess inclusion income. We do, however, expect to enter into various repurchase agreements that have differing maturity dates and afford the lender the right to sell any pledged mortgaged securities if we should default on our obligations. A portion of our distributions may be deemed a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The amount of our distributions to the holders of our Class A Common Stock in a given year may not correspond to REIT taxable income for that year. To the extent our distributions exceed our REIT taxable income, the distribution will be treated as a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital distribution will not be taxable to the extent of a stockholder's tax basis in our shares but will reduce a stockholder's basis in our shares of Class A Common Stock. Our reported GAAP financial results differ from the taxable income results that drive our dividend distributions. Our dividend distributions are driven by the dividend distribution requirements under the REIT tax laws and our profits as calculated for tax purposes pursuant to the Code. Our reported results for GAAP purposes differ materially from both our cash flows and our REIT taxable income. As a result of the significant differences between GAAP and REIT taxable income accounting, stockholders and analysts must undertake a complex analysis to understand our tax results and dividend distribution requirements. This complexity may hinder the trading of our stock or may lead observers to misinterpret our results. Recent legislation related to corporate governance may increase our costs of compliance and our liability. Recently enacted and proposed laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and disclosure requirements applicable to public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased the costs of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. These costs may increase in the future due to our continuing implementation of compliance programs mandated by these requirements. In addition, these new laws, rules and regulations create new legal bases for administrative enforcement, civil and criminal proceedings against us in case of non-compliance, thereby increasing our risks of liability and potential sanctions. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would harm our results of operations. We intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced and we would be unable to conduct our business. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on, and interests in, real estate. Under the current interpretation of the SEC staff, in order to qualify for this exemption, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in these qualifying real estate interests, with at least 25% of remaining assets invested in real estate-related securities. Mortgage-related securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not qualify for purposes of the 55% requirement. Therefore, our ownership of these mortgage-related securities is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. In satisfying the 55% requirement under the Investment Company Act, we treat as qualifying interests mortgage-related securities issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we holds all issued certificates. If the SEC or its staff adopts a contrary interpretation of such treatment, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our mortgage-related securities under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, in order to ensure that we at all times qualify for the exemption under the Investment Company Act, we may be precluded from acquiring mortgage-related securities whose yield is higher than the yield on mortgage-related securities that could be purchased in a manner consistent with the exemption. These factors may lower or eliminate our net income. OTHER RISKS Hedging transactions may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may enter into interest rate cap or swap agreements or pursue other hedging strategies, including the purchase of puts, calls or other options and futures contracts. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of MBS we hold, and other changing market conditions. Hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • certain types of hedges may expose us to risk of loss beyond the fee paid to initiate the hedge; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions is limited by federal income tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market for our Class A Common Stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations, and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the investments of our stockholders. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our mortgage-related securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economies. They also could result in economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our mortgage-related securities or the securities markets in general, which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in the volatility of the market value of our Class A Common Stock. Current loan performance data may not be indicative of future results. When making capital budgeting and other decisions, we use projections, estimates and assumptions based on our experience with mortgage loans. Actual results and the timing of certain events could differ materially in adverse ways from those projected, due to factors including changes in general economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates, fluctuations in mortgage loan prepayment rates and fluctuations in losses due to defaults on mortgage loans. These differences and fluctuations could rise to levels that may adversely affect our profitability. Changes in interest rates may reduce our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations resulting in a decline in the value of our Class A Common Stock. Our results of operations will be derived in part from the spread between the yield on our MBS assets and the cost of our borrowings. There is no assurance that there will be a positive spread in either high interest rate environments or low interest rate environments, or that the spread will not be negative as has recently been in the case. Changes in interest rates may reduce our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and may cause our funding costs to exceed income. In addition, during periods of high interest rates, our dividend yield on our Class A Common Stock may be less attractive compared to alternative investments of equal or lower risk. Each of these factors could negatively affect the market value of our Class A Common Stock. Our financial position has deteriorated during 2007. Continued deterioration may negatively affect our liquidity, results of operations and the value of our Class A Common Stock. Our financial position deteriorated during 2007 due in part to costs associated with the closure of our taxable REIT subsidiary’s mortgage banking business. Although we have taken actions and are evaluating other actions intended to improve our financial position and liquidity, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Continued deterioration may negatively affect liquidity, results of operations and the value of our Class A Common Stock. We have guaranteed certain obligations of our taxable REIT subsidiary, OITRS. If OITRS fails to meet its financial obligations, we may be forced to liquidate certain of our MBS assets to satisfy these guarantees which could negatively affect our liquidity, results of operations and the value of our Class A Common Stock and may result in margin calls from our lenders. We have guaranteed certain obligations of our taxable REIT subsidiary, OITRS, including obligations under OITRS’s funding facilities. Although certain of OITRS’s funding facilities are secured by collateral, if OITRS is unable to fulfill its obligations under such facilities and the value of the collateral is insufficient to repay OITRS’s obligations, we may be required to pay such deficiency under our guarantees of OITRS’s obligations. To pay such deficiency, we may be required to sell MBS portfolio assets to generate the cash necessary to pay OITRS’s creditors and such sales may negatively affect our liquidity, results of operations and the value of our Class A Common Stock. These sales may also result in margin calls from our lenders and transaction counterparties. We are currently a defendant in securities class action lawsuits and may incur expenses that are not covered by insurance in the defense of these lawsuits. Any expenses incurred that are not reimbursed by insurance could negatively and materially impact our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. As described in Part I - Item 3. Legal Proceedings below, we have been named as a defendant in two lawsuits alleging various violations of the federal securities laws and seeking class action certification. These cases involve complex legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of these lawsuits that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. There may be a limited market for our Class A Common Stock in the future. On October 29, 2007, NYSE Regulation, Inc. notified us that our average global market capitalization over a consecutive thirty trading day period had fallen below the NYSE Euronext’s minimum quantitative continued listing criteria for REITs of $25 million. As a result, trading in our Class A Common Stock on the NYSE Euronext was suspended prior to the market opening on November 5, 2007 and our Class A Common Stock was subsequently delisted. We may apply to list our Class A Common Stock on another national securities market in the future, however, no assurance can be given that our Class A Common Stock will be approved for listing on such national securities market. Until such time that our Class A Common Stock is approved for listing on another national securities market, the ability to buy and sell our Class A Common Stock may be limited and this could result in a decline in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Additionally, until such time that our Class A Common Stock is approved for listing on another national securities market, our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities may be limited. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 