Risk Factors We are exposed to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weakening global economy. The recent weakening global economy, severe tightening of the credit markets and turmoil in the financial markets are contributing to slowdowns in the industries in which we operate. Such slowdowns are expected to worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. Reduced growth and uncertainty regarding future growth in economies throughout the world have caused companies to reduce capital investment and may in the future cause further reduction of such investments. These reductions have often been particularly severe in the semiconductor capital equipment industry. Economic uncertainty has led to historically low consumer confidence levels and has caused and may in the future cause our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders with us, which in turn would further reduce our sales and negatively impact our cash flow. Our sales were $266.9 million in fiscal year 2008 compared to $403.8 million for fiscal year 2007, and we expect sequential revenues to be lower in the first quarter of 2009, and we can not predict when our business will improve. We incurred a net loss of $52.4 million, which included a charge for impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets 9 Table of Contents of $55.1 million, for the year ended January 2, 2009, and we expect to incur additional losses in the future. While there can be no assurance as to when the current economic slowdown will end, a period of recovery may nonetheless result in significant fluctuations in customer orders. In the recent period of declining demand, there is a greater risk that we acquire inventory in excess of levels demanded by our customers, which could cause us to incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. Also, as a result of the weakening global economy, certain of our suppliers may be forced out of business, which would require us to either procure products from high-cost suppliers, or if no additional suppliers exist, reconfigure the design and manufacture of our products, and we may be unable to fulfill some customer orders. Furthermore, the tightening of credit in financial markets may delay or prevent our customers from securing funding adequate to operate their businesses and purchase our products. Furthermore, the equity and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels. In many cases, the markets have limited capacity for issuers, and lenders have requested shorter terms. The market for new equity and debt financing is extremely limited and in some cases not available at all. In addition, the markets have increased the uncertainty that lenders will be able to comply with their previous commitments. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may not be able to draw upon our revolving credit facility, incur additional debt or raise new equity in the event we need to do so. These conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect business conditions to remain difficult, and we have implemented cost reduction programs aimed at aligning our ongoing operating costs with our currently expected revenues over the near term. These cost management initiatives include reductions to headcount and reduced spending. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The highly volatile nature of the industries we serve could harm our operating results. Our business and operating results depend in significant part upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors, flat panel displays, solar and medical devices, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for such products. Historically, the industries we serve (in particular the semiconductor industry), have been highly cyclical, with recurring periods of over-supply of products that have had a severe negative effect on the demand for capital equipment used to manufacture such products. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience significant fluctuations in customer orders for our products through such cycles. Slowdowns in the industries we serve have had, and future slowdowns may also have, a material adverse effect on our operating results. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, effectively manage our supply chain and motivate and retain employees. During periods of increasing demand, we must increase manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demands, effectively manage our supply chain and attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to the changes in our business environment, our results of operations will be harmed. Also, the cyclical and volatile nature of the industries we serve make future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult to estimate. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and any impairment of our relationships with these customers would adversely affect our business. A relatively small number of OEM customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our sales, and we expect this trend to continue. Collectively, Applied Materials, Inc., Intuitive Surgical, Inc., Lam Research Corporation and Novellus Systems, Inc., have accounted for 88% of our sales in each of our fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Because of the small number of OEMs in the markets we serve, most of which are already our customers, it would be difficult to replace lost revenue resulting from the loss of, or the reduction, cancellation or delay in purchase orders by any one of these customers. Our customer contracts generally do not require them to place any orders with us. Consolidation among our customers, or a decision by any one or more of our customers to outsource all or most manufacturing and assembly work to a single equipment manufacturer may further concentrate our business in a limited number of customers, and expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on an even smaller number of customers. 10 Table of Contents In addition, by virtue of our customers’ size and the significant portion of revenue that we derive from them, they are able to exert significant influence and pricing pressure in the negotiation of our commercial agreements and the conduct of our business with them. We may also be asked to accommodate customer requests that extend beyond the express terms of our agreements in order to maintain our relationships with our customers. If we are unable to retain and expand our business with these customers on favorable terms, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We have had to qualify, and are required to maintain our status, as a supplier for each of our customers. This is a lengthy process that involves the inspection and approval by a customer of our engineering, documentation, manufacturing and quality control procedures before that customer will place volume orders. Our ability to lessen the adverse effect of any loss of, or reduction in sales to, an existing customer through the rapid addition of one or more new customers is minimal because of these qualification requirements. Consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected by the loss of, or any reduction in orders by, any of our significant customers. Our quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause volatility in our common stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future for a variety of reasons which may include: • demand for and market acceptance of our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the industries we serve or otherwise, often resulting in reduced sales during industry downturns and increased sales during periods of industry recovery; • changes in the timing and size of orders by our customers; • cancellations and postponements of previously placed orders; • pricing pressure from either our competitors or our customers, resulting in the reduction of our product prices; • disruptions or delays in the manufacturing of our products or in the supply of components or raw materials that are incorporated into or used to manufacture our products, thereby causing us to delay the shipment of products; • decreased margins for several or more quarters following the introduction of new products, especially as we introduce new subsystems; • delays in ramp-up in production, low yields or other problems experienced at our manufacturing facilities in China; • changes in design-to-delivery cycle times; • inability to reduce our costs quickly in step with reductions in our prices or in response to decreased demand for our products; • changes in our mix of products sold; • write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory; • one-time expenses or charges associated with failed acquisition negotiations or completed acquisitions; • announcements by our competitors of new products, services or technological innovations, which may, among other things, render our products less competitive; and • geographic mix of worldwide earnings. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Changes in the timing or terms of a small number of transactions could disproportionately affect our 11 Table of Contents operating results in any particular quarter. Moreover, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, we would expect to experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. We have established, and as markets will allow, intend to expand our operations in China, which exposes us to risks associated with operating in a foreign country. We intend to expand, as markets will allow, our operations in China. Our total assets in China at January 2, 2009 and December 28, 2007 were $24.1 million and $27.0 million, respectively. We are exposed to political, economic, legal and other risks associated with operating in China, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • political, civil and economic instability; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • disruptions to our and our customers’ operations due to the outbreak of communicable diseases, such as SARS and avian flu; • disruptions in operations due to the weakness of China’s domestic infrastructure, including transportation and energy; • difficulties in developing relationships with local suppliers; • difficulties in attracting new international customers; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing a distant international subsidiary and branch operations; • the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties; • difficulty in transferring funds to other geographic locations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Our operations in China also subject us to U.S. laws governing the export of equipment. These laws are complex and require us to obtain clearances for the export to China of certain equipment. We may fail to comply with these laws and regulations, which could require us to cease use of certain equipment and expose us to fines or penalties. Over the past several years the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the imposition of confiscatory taxation policies, new restrictions on currency conversion or limitations on sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our Chinese operations, which could result in the partial or total loss of our investment in that country and materially and adversely affect our future operating results. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim we are infringing their intellectual property, which could subject us to litigation or licensing expenses, and we may be prevented from selling our products if any such claims prove successful. We have in the past and may in the future receive claims that our products, processes or technologies infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. For example, in 2007 we completed our defense of an infringement action brought against us by Celerity, Inc. Our defense was successful only in part. We incurred a total of approximately $130,000 in damages and court costs related to the Celerity infringement. In addition, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may be applicable to our products. Any litigation regarding 12 Table of Contents patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The complexity of the technology involved in our products and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development, manufacture and sale of certain of our products if any such claims prove successful. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties and any significant reductions, cancellations or delays in customer orders could cause our revenue to decline and our operating results to suffer. Our revenue is difficult to forecast because we generally do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders and because of the short time frame within which we are often required to design, produce and deliver products to our customers. Most of our revenue in any quarter depends on customer orders for our products that we receive and fulfill in the same quarter. We do not have long-term purchase orders or contracts that contain minimum purchase commitments from our customers. Instead, we receive non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders from our customers. Occasionally, we order and build component inventory in advance of the receipt of actual customer orders. Customers may cancel order forecasts, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, reductions, cancellations or delays in customer order forecasts usually occur without penalty to, or compensation from, the customer. Reductions, cancellations or delays in forecasted orders could cause us to hold inventory longer than anticipated, which could reduce our gross profit, restrict our ability to fund our operations and cause us to incur unanticipated reductions or delays in revenue. If we do not obtain orders as we anticipate, we could have excess component inventory for a specific product that we would not be able to sell to another customer, likely resulting in inventory write-offs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because many of our costs are fixed in the short term, we could experience deterioration in our gross profit when our production volumes decline. The manufacturing of our products is highly complex, and if we are not able to manage our manufacturing and procurement process effectively, our business and operating results will suffer. The manufacturing of our products is a highly complex process that involves the integration of multiple components and requires effective management of our supply chain while meeting our customers’ design-to-delivery cycle time requirements. Through the course of the manufacturing process, our customers may modify design and system configurations in response to changes in their own customers’ requirements. In order to rapidly respond to these modifications and deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, we must effectively manage our manufacturing and procurement process. If we fail to manage this process effectively, we risk losing customers and damaging our reputation. In addition, if we acquire inventory in excess of demand or that does not meet customer specifications, we could incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. These risks are even greater during an economic downturn as we are currently experiencing and as we continue to expand our business beyond gas delivery systems into new subsystems. In this economic downturn, certain of our suppliers may be forced out of business, which would require us to either procure product from higher-cost suppliers or, if no additional suppliers exist, reconfigure the design and manufacture of our products. This could limit our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. OEMs may not continue to outsource other critical subsystems, which would adversely impact our operating results. The success of our business depends on OEMs continuing to outsource the manufacturing of critical subsystems. Most of the largest OEMs have already outsourced production of a significant portion of their critical subsystems. If OEMs do not continue to outsource critical subsystems for their capital equipment, our revenue would be significantly reduced, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we are unable to obtain additional business from OEMs, even if they continue to outsource their production of critical subsystems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents If our new products are not accepted by OEMs or if we are unable to maintain historical margins on our new products, our operating results would be adversely impacted. We design, develop and market critical subsystems to OEMs. Sales of new products are expected to make up an increasing part of our total revenue. The introduction of new products is inherently risky because it is difficult to foresee the adoption of new standards, coordinate our technical personnel and strategic relationships and win acceptance of new products by OEMs. We may not be able to recoup design and development expenditures if our new products are not accepted by OEMs. Newly introduced products typically carry lower gross margins for several or more quarters following their introduction. If any of our new subsystems is not successful in the market, or if we are unable to obtain gross margins on new products that are similar to the gross margins we have historically achieved, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to integrate efficiently the operations of past and future acquired businesses. We have made, and may in the future consider making, additional acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services, technologies or market access. For example, we acquired Sieger Engineering, Inc. in June 2006. If we are to realize the anticipated benefits of past and future acquisitions or investments, the operations of these companies must be integrated and combined efficiently with our own. The process of integrating supply and distribution channels, computer and accounting systems, and other aspects of operations, while managing a larger entity, have and will present a significant challenge to our management. In addition, it is not certain that we will be able to incorporate different financial and reporting controls, processes, systems and technologies into our existing business environment. The difficulties of integration may increase because of the necessity of combining personnel with varied business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures and objectives. We may assume substantial debt and incur substantial costs associated with these activities and we may suffer other material adverse effects from these integration efforts which could materially reduce our earnings, even over the long-term. We may not succeed with the integration process and we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of the business combinations. The dedication of management resources to such integration or divestitures may detract attention from the day-to-day business, and we may need to hire additional management personnel to manage our acquisitions successfully. In addition, we frequently evaluate acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, assets, businesses and technologies. Even if an acquisition or other investment is not completed, we may incur significant management time and effort and financial cost in evaluating such acquisition or investment, which has in the past had, and could in the future have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, due to the limited liquidity in the credit market, the financing of any such acquisition may be difficult to obtain, and the terms of such financing may be less favorable. Our business is largely dependent on the know-how of our employees, and we generally do not have a protected intellectual property position. Our business is largely dependent upon our design, engineering, manufacturing and testing know-how. We rely on a combination of trade secrets and contractual confidentiality provisions and, to a much lesser extent, patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our proprietary rights. Accordingly, our intellectual property position is more vulnerable than it would be if it were protected by patents. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our proprietary rights, and, in the event we do not detect infringement of our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position in the market if any such infringement occurs. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies and know-how. If we do not keep pace with developments in the industries we serve and with technological innovation generally, our products may not be competitive. Rapid technological innovation in semiconductor, flat panel displays, solar and medical device manufacturing requires capital equipment providers to anticipate and respond quickly to evolving customer requirements and could render our current product offerings and technology obsolete. Technological innovations are inherently 14 Table of Contents complex. We must devote resources to technology development in order to keep pace with such rapidly evolving technologies. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to design, engineer and manufacture products that meet the changing needs of our customers. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design, engineering and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. If we are unable to integrate new technical specifications into competitive product designs, develop the technical capabilities necessary to manufacture new products or make necessary modifications or enhancements to existing products, our business prospects could be harmed. The timely development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process which requires that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in the industries we serve, including new standards for our products; • accurately identify and design new products to meet market needs; • collaborate with OEMs to design and develop products on a timely and cost-effective basis; • ramp-up production of new products, especially new subsystems, in a timely manner and with acceptable yields; • successfully manage development production cycles; and • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others. The industries in which we participate are highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our operating results would be harmed. Although we have not faced competition in the past from the largest subsystem and component manufacturers in the industries we serve, these suppliers could compete with us in the future. Increased competition has in the past resulted, and could in the future result, in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our operating results. We are subject to pricing pressure as we attempt to increase market share with our existing customers. Competitors may introduce new products for the markets currently served by our products. These products may have better performance, lower prices and achieve broader market acceptance than our products. Further, OEMs typically own the design rights to their products and may provide these designs to other subsystem manufacturers. If our competitors obtain proprietary rights to these designs such that we are unable to obtain the designs necessary to manufacture products for our OEM customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products, and reduce prices to increase market share. Moreover, there may be merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors that may provide our competitors and potential competitors an advantage over us by enabling them to expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Further, if one of our customers develops or acquires the internal capability to develop and produce critical subsystems that we produce, the loss of that customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The introduction of new technologies and new market entrants may also increase competitive pressures. We must achieve design wins to retain our existing customers and to obtain new customers. New capital equipment typically has a lifespan of several years, and OEMs frequently specify which systems, subsystems, components and instruments are to be used in their equipment. Once a specific system, subsystem, component or instrument is incorporated into a piece of capital equipment, it will likely continue to be incorporated into that piece of equipment for at least several months before the OEM switches to the product of another supplier. 15 Table of Contents Accordingly, it is important that our products are designed into the new semiconductor, solar, flat panel and medical device capital equipment of OEMs, which we refer to as a design win, in order to retain our competitive position with existing customers and to obtain new customers. We incur technology development and sales expenses with no assurance that our products will ultimately be designed into an OEM’s capital equipment. Further, developing new customer relationships, as well as increasing our market share at existing customers, requires a substantial investment of our sales, engineering and management resources without any assurance from prospective customers that they will place significant orders. We believe that OEMs often select their suppliers and place orders based on long-term relationships. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from OEMs that are not currently our customers. Our operating results and potential growth could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve design wins with leading OEMs. We may not be able to respond quickly enough to increases in demand for our products. Demand shifts in the industries we serve are rapid and difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond quickly enough to an increase in demand. Our ability to increase sales of our products depends, in part, upon our ability to: • mobilize our supply chain in order to maintain component and raw material supply; • optimize the use of our design, engineering and manufacturing capacity in a timely manner; • deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion; • expand, if necessary, our manufacturing capacity; and • maintain our product quality as we increase production. If we are unable to respond to rapid increases in demand for our products on a timely basis or to manage any corresponding expansion of our manufacturing capacity effectively, our customers could increase their purchases from our competitors, which would adversely affect our business. Our dependence on our suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on both single-source and sole-source suppliers some of whom are relatively small, for many of the components we use in our products. In addition, our customers often specify components of particular suppliers that we must incorporate into our products. Our suppliers are under no obligation to provide us with components. As a result, the loss of or failure to perform by any of these providers could adversely affect our business and operating results. The risk of such a loss is particularly high as a result of the current economic downturn, as many of our suppliers have announced poor operating results and have limited access to capital. In addition, the manufacturing of certain components and subsystems is an extremely complex process. Therefore, if a supplier were unable to provide the volume of components we require on a timely basis and at acceptable prices, we would have to identify and qualify replacements from alternative sources of supply. The process of qualifying new suppliers for these complex components is lengthy and could delay our production, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also experience difficulty in obtaining sufficient supplies of components and raw materials in times of significant growth in our business. For example, we have in the past experienced shortages in supplies of various components, such as mass flow controllers, valves and regulators, and certain prefabricated parts, such as sheet metal enclosures, used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, one of our competitors manufactures mass flow controllers that may be specified by one or more of our customers. If we are unable to obtain these particular mass flow controllers from our competitor or convince a customer to select alternative mass flow controllers, we may be unable to meet that customer’s requirements, which could result in a loss of market share. 16 Table of Contents Defects in our products could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause the unintended release of hazardous materials and result in potentially costly litigation. A number of factors, including design flaws, material and component failures, contamination in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and unknown sensitivities to process conditions, such as temperature and humidity, as well as equipment failures, may cause our products to contain undetected errors or defects. Problems with our products may: • cause delays in product introductions and shipments; • result in increased costs and diversion of development resources; • cause us to incur increased charges due to unusable inventory; • require design modifications; • decrease market acceptance of, or customer satisfaction with, our products, which could result in decreased sales and product returns; or • result in lower yields for semiconductor manufacturers. If any of our products contain defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged and customers might be reluctant to buy our products. We may also face a higher rate of product defects as we increase our production levels. Product defects could result in the loss of existing customers or impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, we may not find defects or failures in our products until after they are installed in a manufacturer’s fabrication facility. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. Our current or potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products. Hazardous materials flow through and are controlled by our products and an unintended release of these materials could result in serious injury or death. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages. We have outstanding indebtedness; the restrictive covenants under our debt agreements may limit our ability to expand or pursue our business strategy; if we are forced to prepay some or all of this indebtedness our financial position would be severely and adversely affected. We have outstanding indebtedness. At the end of fiscal 2008, our long-term debt was $12.7 million and our short-term debt was $5.8 million, for an aggregate total of $18.5 million. Our loan agreement, as amended on February 4, 2009, requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including maintenance of a minimum monthly tangible net worth and a minimum monthly liquidity coverage ratio. The covenants contained in our line of credit with the bank also restrict our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make distributions in respect of our capital stock; • redeem capital stock; • make investments or other restricted payments outside the ordinary course of business; • engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • create liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • make payments on our other debt, other than in the ordinary course; and • engage in certain mergers and acquisitions. We are currently in compliance with the financial and reporting covenants in our loan agreement. In January 2009, we were out of compliance with the reporting covenants, however, we received a waiver from our bank. We cannot assure you that we will meet these financial covenants in subsequent periods. If we are unable to meet any 17 Table of Contents covenants, we cannot assure you that the bank will grant waivers or amend the covenants, or that the bank will not terminate the agreement, preclude further borrowings or require us to immediately repay any outstanding borrowings. As long as our indebtedness remains outstanding, the restrictive covenants could impair our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies or obtain additional funding. Forced prepayment of some or all of our indebtedness would reduce our available cash balances and have an adverse impact on our operating and financial performance. We may not be able to fund our future capital requirements from our operations, and financing from other sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We made capital expenditures of $9.4 million during fiscal 2008, of which $7.7 million related to improvements to our new manufacturing facility in Hayward, California and $1.7 million related to the development of our manufacturing facilities in China. In 2007, we made capital expenditures of $8.0 million, of which $4.3 million related to the implementation of our new ERP system and $1.7 million related to the development of our manufacturing facilities in China, which includes $1.5 million related to our second, leased manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China. The amount of our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • general worldwide financial market conditions; • the cost required to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity; • the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts; • the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products; • changing manufacturing capabilities to meet new customer requirements; and • market acceptance of our products. Although we amended our loan agreement and extended the maturity of our credit facility through January 29, 2012, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing if our current cash and cash flow from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities. Due to very limited liquidity in the credit market, we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing when and if necessary in a timely manner. In addition, banks have sometimes been unable or unwilling to satisfy their obligations under existing credit arrangements. Access to capital markets has recently been unavailable to most companies such as ours and there can be no assurance as to when the capital markets will recover. Equity financing, when and if available, could be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financings would likely involve covenants that restrict our business operations. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The technology labor market is very competitive, and our business will suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key executive officers, as well as our research, engineering, sales, manufacturing and administrative personnel, most of whom are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the technology industry is intense, and we operate in geographic locations in which labor markets are particularly competitive. Our business is particularly dependent on expertise which only a very limited number of engineers possess. The loss of any of our key employees and officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer or any of our Senior Vice Presidents, or the failure to attract and retain new qualified employees, would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulties with our new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system which has impacted and could further impact our results of operations. We have experienced and may continue to experience, difficulties with our new ERP system. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, increased year-end rescheduling actions by our customers, combined with the difficulties we experienced with our new ERP system, resulted in inefficiencies which drove higher operating costs. We implemented our new ERP system in our China facilities during the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2009. Difficulties related to implementing and working with a new ERP system have adversely affected and could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of a consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with this new ERP system could further adversely affect our ability to complete the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities required by SOX 404. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our international sales are denominated primarily, though not entirely, in U.S. dollars. Many of the costs and expenses associated with our Chinese subsidiaries are paid in Chinese Renminbi, and we expect our exposure to Chinese Renminbi to increase as we ramp up production in those facilities. In addition, purchases of some of our components are denominated in Japanese Yen. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies in which our revenue or costs are denominated and the U.S. dollar may affect our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins. While fluctuations in the value of our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we do not currently hedge our exchange exposure, and exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the future. If environmental contamination were to occur in one of our manufacturing facilities, we could be subject to substantial liabilities. We use substances regulated under various foreign, domestic, federal, state and local environmental laws in our manufacturing facilities. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental laws could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines or the suspension or termination of the production of our products. In addition, we may not be aware of all environmental laws or regulations that could subject us to liability. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss due to natural disasters, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by natural disasters, including fires and earthquakes. We have facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as our manufacturing facility in South San Francisco, California and our new manufacturing and headquarters facilities in Hayward, California. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. In addition, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, extended power outages at our facilities. We do not carry insurance policies that cover potential losses caused by earthquakes or other natural disasters or power loss. We must maintain effective controls, and our auditors will report on them. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. As a result, our management’s attention might be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 19 Table of Contents During the audit of our financial statements for fiscal 2008 and during the third quarter of 2008, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting were identified and, in the future, we may identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness identified as of January 2, 2009 related to year-end physical inventory count procedures and computation of inventory reserves. The material weakness identified in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 related to misclassification of debt between current and non current liabilities in our balance sheet as of September 26, 2008. We have remediated the material weakness related to misclassification of debt and are in the process of determining the steps required to remediate the material weakness related to year-end physical inventory count procedures and computation of inventory reserves, however we cannot estimate the time required to complete these remediation steps. Any failure by us to maintain adequate controls or to adequately implement new controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we might need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we might not be able to do so in a timely fashion. The market for our stock is subject to significant fluctuation. The size of our public market capitalization is relatively small, and the volume of our shares that are traded is low. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our ability to successfully introduce new products and manage new product transitions; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • announcements relating to any of our key customers, significant suppliers or the semiconductor manufacturing and capital equipment industry generally; • general market conditions; • the effects of war and terrorist attacks; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 