ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Although the immediate effect of “QE3” was an increase of Agency MBS prices, there is no certainty what effect QE3 and other recently announced governmental actions might have in the future on the price and liquidity of the securities in which we invest. However, the confluence of such factors as QE3 and further governmental efforts to increase home loan refinancing opportunities could simultaneously raise Agency MBS prices and increase prepayment activity, which could place downward pressure on our net interest margin. On September 13, 2012, the Federal Reserve announced a third round of quantitative easing, or QE3, which is an open-ended program designed to expand the Federal Reserve’s holdings of long-term securities by purchasing an additional $40 billion of Agency MBS per month until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, show signs of improvement. When combined with programs to extend the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of securities, which was known as “Operation Twist” and described below, and reinvest principal and interest payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and Agency MBS into Agency MBS, QE3 was expected to increase the Federal Reserve’s holdings of long-term securities by $85 billion each month through the end of 2012. The Federal Reserve also announced that it would keep the target range for the Federal Funds Rate between zero and 0.25% through at least mid-2015, which was six months longer than previously expected. The Federal Reserve provided further guidance to the market in December 2012 by stating that it intended to keep the Federal Funds Rate close to zero while the unemployment rate is above 6.5% and as long as inflation does not rise above 2.5%. In December 2012, the Federal Reserve also announced that it would initially begin buying $45 billion of long-term Treasury bonds each month and noted that such amount may increase in the future. This bond purchase program replaced the program known as “Operation Twist,” in which the Federal Reserve repurchased approximately $45 billion of long-term Treasury bonds each month and sold approximately the same amount of short-term Treasury bonds. The Federal Reserve expects these measures to put downward pressure on long-term interest rates. 30 The immediate impact of the announcement of QE3 was an increase in Agency MBS prices. This effect was especially pronounced on Agency MBS that the Federal Reserve was expected to target for acquisition under QE3. Since the initial price spike, prices for all but the target securities have receded below the price levels that existed before the announcement of QE3. We do not anticipate targeting for acquisition the same securities the Federal Reserve has targeted to date, although the securities targeted by the Federal Reserve could change. To the extent that the scope and effectiveness of government-sponsored refinancing programs increases, prepayments on our target securities could increase accordingly. The combination of higher prices and higher refinancing activity on our target securities could decrease our net interest margin. To the extent QE3 decreases the liquidity in the market of our target securities, which has yet to be the case, we might not be able to acquire the securities we target or acquire them in the quantities we desire. We have issued long-term debt to fund our operations which can increase the volatility of our earnings and stockholders’ equity. In October 2005, Bimini Capital completed a private offering of trust preferred securities of Bimini Capital Trust II, of which $26.8 million are still outstanding. The Company must pay interest on these junior subordinated notes on a quarterly basis at a rate equal to current three month LIBOR rate plus 3.5%. To the extent the Company’s does not generate sufficient earnings to cover the interest payments on the debt, our earnings and stockholders’ equity may be negatively impacted. The Company considers the junior subordinated notes as part of its long-term capital base. Therefore, for purposes of all disclosure in this report concerning our capital or leverage, the Company considers both stockholders’ equity and the $26.8 million of junior subordinated notes to constitute capital. The Company has also elected to account for its investments in MBS under the fair value option and, therefore, will report MBS on our financial statements at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings. Changes in the value of the MBS do not impact the outstanding balance of the junior subordinated notes but rather our stockholders’ equity. Therefore, changes in the value of our MBS will be absorbed solely by our stockholders’ equity. Because our stockholders equity is small in relation to our total capital, such changes may result in significant changes in our stockholders’ equity. Interest rate mismatches between our Agency MBS and our borrowings may reduce our net interest margin during periods of changing interest rates, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our portfolio includes Agency MBS backed by ARMs, hybrid ARMs and fixed-rate mortgages, and the mix of these securities in the portfolio may be increased or decreased over time. Additionally, the interest rates on ARMs and hybrid ARMs may vary over time based on changes in a short-term interest rate index, of which there are many. We finance our acquisitions of PT Agency MBS with short-term financing. During periods of rising short-term interest rates, the income we earn on these securities will not change (with respect to Agency MBS backed by fixed-rate mortgage loans) or will not increase at the same rate (with respect to Agency MBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs) as our related financing costs, which may reduce our net interest margin or result in losses. 31 The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. The payments we receive on the Agency MBS in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. Government sponsored entities, or GSEs, but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Since 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, Congress and the US Treasury have undertaken a series of actions to stabilize these GSEs and the financial markets generally. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act was signed into law on July 30, 2008, and it established the Federal Housing Finance Authority, or FHFA. On September 7, 2008, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, which is a statutory process pursuant to which the FHFA operates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in an effort to stabilize the entities. The FHFA, together with the U.S. Treasury and the U.S. Federal Reserve, has also undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, support the availability of mortgage financing and protect taxpayers. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has taken steps to capitalize and provide financing to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and agreed to purchase direct obligations and Agency MBS issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we may not be able to acquire Agency MBS from these companies, which could drastically reduce the amount and type of Agency MBS available for investment, thereby increasing the price of these assets. Further, any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency MBS, have broad adverse market implications and negatively impact us. The current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we receive from Agency MBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio and our financing costs. Additionally, the U.S. Government could elect to stop providing credit support of any kind to the mortgage market. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. We cannot predict the impact, if any, on our earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders of the FHFA’s proposed revisions to Fannie Mae’s, Freddie Mac’s and Ginnie Mae’s existing infrastructures to align the standards and practices of the three entities. On February 21, 2012, the FHFA released its Strategic Plan for Enterprise Conservatorships, which set forth three goals for the next phase of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conservatorships. These three goals are to (i) build a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, (ii) gradually contract Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s presence in the marketplace while simplifying and shrinking their operations, and (iii) maintain foreclosure prevention activities and credit availability for new and refinanced mortgages. On October 4, 2012, the FHFA released its white paper entitled Building a New Infrastructure for the Secondary Mortgage Market, which proposes a new infrastructure for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that has two basic goals. 32 The first such goal is to replace the current, outdated infrastructures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with a common, more efficient infrastructure that aligns the standards and practices of the two entities, beginning with core functions performed by both entities such as issuance, master servicing, bond administration, collateral management and data integration. The second goal is to establish an operating framework for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that is consistent with the progress of housing finance reform and encourages and accommodates the increased participation of private capital in assuming credit risk associated with the secondary mortgage market. The FHFA recognizes that there are a number of impediments to their goals which may or may not be surmountable, such as the absence of any significant secondary mortgage market mechanisms beyond Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, and that their proposals are in the formative stages. As a result, it is unclear if the proposals will be enacted. If such proposals are enacted, it is unclear how closely what is enacted will resemble the proposals from the FHFA White Paper or what the effects of the enactment will be in terms of our total stockholders’ equity, earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our Agency MBS, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. During the second half of 2008, the U.S. Government commenced programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. The programs involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, in February 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is a multi-faceted plan intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things: · allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; · creating the Homeowner Stability Initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and · allowing judicial modifications of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming residential mortgages loans during bankruptcy proceedings. In September 2011, the White House announced that they are working on a major plan to allow some of the 11 million homeowners who owe more on their mortgages that their homes are worth to refinance. In October 2011, the FHFA announced proposed changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, that would expand access to refinancing for qualified individuals and families whose homes have lost value by, among other things, increasing the HARP loan-to-value ratio above 125%. However, this would only apply to mortgages guaranteed by the GSEs. There are many challenging issues to this proposal, notably the question as to whether a loan with a loan-to-value ratio of 125% qualifies as a mortgage or an unsecured consumer loan. The chances of this initiative’s success have created additional uncertainty in the MBS market, particularly with respect to possible increases in prepayment rates. 33 On January 4, 2012, the U.S. Federal Reserve issued a white paper outlining additional ideas with regard to refinancings and loan modifications. It is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on some Agency MBS. See “—Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency MBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders,” for more information relating to the impact of prepayment on our business. These initiatives, any future loan modification programs and future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency MBS in which we invest. The downgrade of the U.S.’s and certain European countries’ credit ratings and any future downgrades of the U.S.’s and certain European countries’ credit ratings may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating for the first time in history. Because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are in conservatorship of the U.S. Government, downgrades to the U.S.’s credit rating could impact the credit risk associated with Agency MBS and, therefore, decrease the value of the Agency MBS in our portfolio. In addition, the downgrade of the U.S. Government’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain European countries has created broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which has weighed heavily on the global banking system. Therefore, the recent downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain European countries and any future downgrades of the U.S.’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain European countries may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The downgrade of numerous European banks and continued deterioration of economic conditions in the European Union generally may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the past several years, economic conditions across the European Union have continued to deteriorate as the effects of financial crisis linger. Domestic banks in many countries including Spain and Italy face constrained access to capital and have, or may, seek bail-outs from either their respective governments or other pan-European agencies. Exacerbating the problem is the fact that many of the sovereigns are in similar conditions with excessive fiscal deficits, high borrowing costs and facing external pressure to constrain their external debt and fiscal deficits. The perceived inability of the various sovereign governments, the European Central Bank, International Monetary Fund or other agencies to adequately address these issues has negatively impacted markets across Europe and the globe. To the extent these conditions continue or worsen, we could be adversely impacted to the extent borrowing costs increase due to rising LIBOR levels or security market liquidity deteriorates, constraining our ability to acquire and finance our portfolio. Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency MBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when applicable mortgage interest rates decline. Furthermore, both HARP and Operation Twist could cause an increase in prepayment rates. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when mortgage interest rates remain steady or increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our Agency MBS portfolio, resulting in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to the Agency MBS we own do not protect us against prepayment risks. 34 We invest in structured Agency MBS, including CMOs, IOs, IIOs and POs. Although structured Agency MBS are generally subject to the same risks as our PT MBS, certain types of risks may be enhanced depending on the type of structured Agency MBS in which we invest. The structured Agency MBS in which we invest are securitizations (i) issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, (ii) collateralized by Agency MBS and (iii) divided into various tranches that have different characteristics (such as different maturities or different coupon payments). These securities may carry greater risk than an investment in PT MBS. For example, certain types of structured Agency MBS, such as IOs, IIOs and POs, are more sensitive to prepayment risks than PT MBS. If we were to invest in structured Agency MBS that were more sensitive to prepayment risks relative to other types of structured Agency MBS or PT Agency MBS, we may increase our portfolio-wide prepayment risk. Increased levels of prepayments on the mortgages underlying our Agency MBS might decrease net interest income or result in a net loss, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgages, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ ability to prepay their loans. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise. Prepayment rates also may be affected by other factors, including, without limitation, conditions in the housing and financial markets, governmental action (such as HARP and Operation Twist), general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on ARMs, hybrid ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans. With respect to PT Agency MBS, faster-than-expected prepayments could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders in various ways, including the following: · A portion of our PT Agency MBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs may initially bear interest at rates that are lower than their fully indexed rates, which are equivalent to the applicable index rate plus a margin. If a PT MBS backed by ARMs or hybrid ARMs is prepaid prior to or soon after the time of adjustment to a fully-indexed rate, we will have held that Agency MBS while it was less profitable and lost the opportunity to receive interest at the fully-indexed rate over the remainder of its expected life. · If we are unable to acquire new Agency MBS to replace the prepaid Agency MBS, our returns on capital may be lower than if we were able to quickly acquire new Agency MBS. When we acquire structured Agency MBS, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate, generating an expected yield. When the prepayment rates on the mortgages underlying our structured Agency MBS are higher than expected, our returns on those securities may be materially adversely affected. For example, the value of our IOs and IIOs are extremely sensitive to prepayments because holders of these securities do not have the right to receive any principal payments on the underlying mortgages. Therefore, if the mortgage loans underlying our IOs and IIOs are prepaid, such securities would cease to have any value, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. While we seek to minimize prepayment risk, we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. 35 A decrease in prepayment rates on the mortgages underlying our Agency MBS might decrease net interest income or result in a net loss, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Certain of our structured Agency MBS may be adversely affected by a decrease in prepayment rates. For example, because POs are similar to zero-coupon bonds, our expected returns on such securities will be contingent on our receiving the principal payments of the underlying mortgage loans at expected intervals that assume a certain prepayment rate. If prepayment rates are lower than expected, we will not receive principal payments as quickly as we anticipated and, therefore, our expected returns on these securities will be adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. The U.S. Government’s pressing for refinancing of certain loans may affect prepayment rates for mortgage loans underlying our Agency MBS. In addition to the increased pressure upon residential mortgage loan investors and servicers to engage in loss mitigation activities, the U.S. Government is pressing for refinancing of certain loans, and this encouragement may affect prepayment rates for mortgage loans underlying our Agency MBS. To the extent these and other economic stabilization or stimulus efforts are successful in increasing prepayment speeds for residential mortgage loans, such as those in Agency MBS, our income and operating results could be harmed, particularly in connection with our IOs and IIOs, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Interest rate caps on the ARMs and hybrid ARMs backing our Agency MBS may reduce our net interest margin during periods of rising interest rates, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. ARMs and hybrid ARMs are typically subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through the maturity of the loan. Our borrowings typically are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, our financing costs could increase without limitation while caps could limit the interest we earn on the ARMs and hybrid ARMs backing our Agency MBS. This problem is magnified for ARMs and hybrid ARMs that are not fully indexed because such periodic interest rate caps prevent the coupon on the security from fully reaching the specified rate in one reset. Further, some ARMs and hybrid ARMs may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we may receive less cash income on Agency MBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs than necessary to pay interest on our related borrowings. Interest rate caps on Agency MBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs could reduce our net interest margin if interest rates were to increase beyond the level of the caps, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We rely on analytical models and other data to analyze potential asset acquisition and disposition opportunities and to manage our portfolio. Such models and other data may be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, which could cause us to purchase assets that do not meet our expectations or to make asset management decisions that are not in line with our strategy. We rely on analytical models and other data supplied by third parties. These models and data may be used to value assets or potential asset acquisitions and dispositions and also in connection with our asset management activities. If our models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon could expose us to potential risks. Our reliance on models and data may induce us to purchase certain assets at prices that are too high, to sell certain other assets at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether. Similarly, any hedging activities that are based on faulty models and data may prove to be unsuccessful. 36 Some models, such as prepayment models, may be predictive in nature. The use of predictive models has inherent risks. For example, such models may incorrectly forecast future behavior, leading to potential losses. In addition, the predictive models used by us may differ substantially from those models used by other market participants, resulting in valuations based on these predictive models that may be substantially higher or lower for certain assets than actual market prices. Furthermore, because predictive models are usually constructed based on historical data supplied by third parties, the success of relying on such models may depend heavily on the accuracy and reliability of the supplied historical data, and, in the case of predicting performance in scenarios with little or no historical precedent (such as extreme broad-based declines in home prices, or deep economic recessions or depressions), such models must employ greater degrees of extrapolation and are therefore more speculative and less reliable. All valuation models rely on correct market data input. If incorrect market data is entered into even a well-founded valuation model, the resulting valuations will be incorrect. However, even if market data is inputted correctly, “model prices” will often differ substantially from market prices, especially for securities with complex characteristics or whose values are particularly sensitive to various factors. If our market data inputs are incorrect or our model prices differ substantially from market prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. Valuations of some of our assets are inherently uncertain, may be based on estimates, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may differ from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these assets existed. As a result, the values of some of our assets are uncertain. While in many cases our determination of the fair value of our assets is based on valuations provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, we can and do value assets based upon our judgment, and such valuations may differ from those provided by third-party dealers and pricing services. Valuations of certain assets are often difficult to obtain or are unreliable. In general, dealers and pricing services heavily disclaim their valuations. Additionally, dealers may claim to furnish valuations only as an accommodation and without special compensation, and so they may disclaim any and all liability for any direct, incidental or consequential damages arising out of any inaccuracy or incompleteness in valuations, including any act of negligence or breach of any warranty. Depending on the complexity and illiquidity of an asset, valuations of the same asset can vary substantially from one dealer or pricing service to another. The valuation process has been particularly difficult recently because market events have made valuations of certain assets more difficult and unpredictable and the disparity of valuations provided by third-party dealers has widened. Our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected if our fair value determinations of these assets were materially higher than the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these assets. An increase in interest rates may cause a decrease in the volume of newly issued, or investor demand for, Agency MBS, which could materially adversely affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment objectives and our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Rising interest rates generally reduce the demand for consumer credit, including mortgage loans, due to the higher cost of borrowing. A reduction in the volume of mortgage loans may affect the volume of Agency MBS available to us, which could affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment objectives. Rising interest rates may also result in Agency MBS that were issued prior to an interest rate increase having yields that do not exceed prevailing market interest rates. If rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of Agency MBS or Agency MBS with a yield that exceeds our borrowing costs, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders may be materially adversely affected. 37 Because the assets that we acquire might experience periods of illiquidity, we might be prevented from selling our Agency MBS at favorable times and prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Agency MBS generally experience periods of illiquidity. Such conditions are more likely to occur for structured Agency MBS because such securities are generally traded in markets much less liquid than the PT Agency MBS market. As a result, we may be unable to dispose of our Agency MBS at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. The lack of liquidity might result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. The illiquidity of Agency MBS could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our use of leverage could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Under normal market conditions, we generally expect our leverage ratio to be less than 12 to 1, although at times our borrowings may be above or below this level. We incur this indebtedness by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our PT Agency MBS and a portion of our structured Agency MBS. Our total indebtedness, however, is not expressly limited by our policies and will depend on our and our prospective lenders’ estimates of the stability of our portfolio’s cash flow. As a result, there is no limit on the amount of leverage that we may incur. We face the risk that we might not be able to meet our debt service obligations or a lender’s margin requirements from our income and, to the extent we cannot, we might be forced to liquidate some of our Agency MBS at unfavorable prices. Our use of leverage could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. For example: · Our repurchase agreement borrowings are secured by our PT Agency MBS and may be secured by a portion of our structured Agency MBS under repurchase agreements. A decline in the market value of the PT Agency MBS or structured Agency MBS used to secure these debt obligations could limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring us to pledge additional collateral to secure our borrowings. In that situation, we could be required to sell Agency MBS under adverse market conditions in order to obtain the additional collateral required by the lender. If these sales are made at prices lower than the carrying value of the Agency MBS, we would experience losses. · To the extent we are compelled to liquidate qualifying real estate assets to repay debts, our compliance with the REIT rules regarding our assets and our sources of gross income could be negatively affected, which could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. Losing our REIT qualification would cause us to be subject to U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes) on all of our income and would decrease profitability and cash available for distributions to stockholders. If we experience losses as a result of our use of leverage, such losses could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may incur increased borrowing costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements are generally adjustable and correspond to short-term interest rates, such as LIBOR or a short-term U.S. Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: · the movement of interest rates; 38 · the availability of financing in the market; and · the value and liquidity of our Agency MBS. All of our short-term borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. If the interest rates on these repurchase agreements increase, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. Failure to procure adequate repurchase agreement financing, or to renew or replace existing repurchase agreement financing as it matures, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We currently have master repurchase agreements with five counterparties. We cannot provide assurance that any, or sufficient, repurchase agreement financing will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Any decline in the value of Agency MBS, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing arrangements already in place. Additionally, our lenders may have owned or financed MBS that have declined in value and caused the lender to suffer losses as a result of the recent downturn in the residential mortgage market. If these conditions persist, these institutions may be forced to exit the repurchase market, further tighten lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital, or haircuts, required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, we may be unable to diversify the credit risk associated with our lenders. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders may be materially adversely effected. Furthermore, because we intend to rely primarily on short-term borrowings to fund our MBS, our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we will have to sell some or all of our assets, possibly under adverse market conditions. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, they may be required to significantly increase the cost of the financing that they provide to us. Our lenders also may revise their eligibility requirements for the types of assets they are willing to finance or the terms of such financings, based on, among other factors, the regulatory environment and their management of perceived risk. 39 Adverse market developments could cause our lenders to require us to pledge additional assets as collateral. If our assets were insufficient to meet these collateral requirements, we might be compelled to liquidate particular assets at inopportune times and at unfavorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Adverse market developments, including a sharp or prolonged rise in interest rates, a change in prepayment rates or increasing market concern about the value or liquidity of one or more types of Agency MBS, might reduce the market value of our portfolio, which might cause our lenders to initiate margin calls. A margin call means that the lender requires us to pledge additional collateral to re-establish the ratio of the value of the collateral to the amount of the borrowing. The specific collateral value to borrowing ratio that would trigger a margin call is not set in the master repurchase agreements and not determined until we engage in a repurchase transaction under these agreements. Our fixed-rate Agency MBS generally are more susceptible to margin calls as increases in interest rates tend to more negatively affect the market value of fixed-rate securities. If we are unable to satisfy margin calls, our lenders may foreclose on our collateral. The threat or occurrence of a margin call could force us to sell either directly or through a foreclosure our Agency MBS under adverse market conditions. Because of the significant leverage we expect to have, we may incur substantial losses upon the threat or occurrence of a margin call, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, the liquidation of collateral may jeopardize our ability to qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT, as we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of gross income. If we are compelled to liquidate our Agency MBS, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our ability to qualify or maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT or maintain our qualification would cause us to be subject to U.S. federal income tax (and any applicable state and local taxes) on all of our income. Our use of repurchase agreements may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral in the event of a bankruptcy filing. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our investment under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. On October 31, 2011, MF Global, one of our former repurchase agreement counterparties, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. At the time of MF Global’s bankruptcy filing, we did not have any repurchase agreements in place with MF Global, however, MF Global held approximately $0.3 million of cash related to repurchase agreements in place prior to their bankruptcy filing. To date, we have not recovered this cash, and MF Global is no longer one of our repurchase agreement counterparties. We cannot assure you that we will recover all or any of the remaining collateral cash in the future. If we fail to maintain our relationship with AVM, L.P. or if we do not establish relationships with other repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative service providers, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. We have engaged AVM, L.P. to provide us with certain repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative services. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with AVM, L.P. or we are unable to establish successful relationships with other repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative service providers, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. 40 If our lenders default on their obligations to resell the Agency MBS back to us at the end of the repurchase transaction term, or if the value of the Agency MBS has declined by the end of the repurchase transaction term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase transaction, we will lose money on these transactions, which, in turn, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the financial institution under one of our master repurchase agreements in exchange for cash, and our counterparty is obligated to resell the securities to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically from 24 to 90 days but may be up to 364 days or more. The cash we receive when we initially sell the securities is less than the value of those securities, which is referred to as the haircut. Many financial institutions from which we may obtain repurchase agreement financing have increased their haircuts in the past and may do so again in the future. As of December 31, 2012, our haircuts were approximately 5.5% on average, which means that we will be required to pledge Agency MBS the value of which equals approximately 105.8% of the principal amount of the borrowings. If these haircuts are increased, we will be required to post additional cash or securities as collateral for our Agency MBS. If our counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities to us, we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). We would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities had declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the counterparty can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. There is no assurance we would be able to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all. Hedging against interest rate exposure may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. To the extent consistent with qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may enter into interest rate cap or swap agreements or pursue other hedging strategies, including the purchase of puts, calls or other options and futures contracts in order to hedge the interest rate risk of our portfolio. In general, our hedging strategy depends on our view of our entire portfolio consisting of assets, liabilities and derivative instruments, in light of prevailing market conditions. We could misjudge the condition of our investment portfolio or the market. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of Agency MBS we hold and other changing market conditions. Hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: · hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; · available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; · the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; · certain types of hedges may expose us to risk of loss beyond the fee paid to initiate the hedge; · the amount of gross income that a REIT may earn from certain hedging transactions is limited by federal income tax provisions governing REITs; 41 · the credit quality of the counterparty on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and · the counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. There are no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. Alternatively, we may fail to properly assess a risk to our investment portfolio or may fail to recognize a risk entirely, leaving us exposed to losses without the benefit of any offsetting hedging activities. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. The nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not occur. Because of the foregoing risks, our hedging activity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our use of certain hedging techniques may expose us to counterparty risks. If an interest rate swap counterparty cannot perform under the terms of the interest rate swap, we may not receive payments due under that swap, and thus, we may lose any unrealized gain associated with the interest rate swap. The hedged liability could cease to be hedged by the interest rate swap. Additionally, we may also risk the loss of any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the interest rate swap if the counterparty becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy. Similarly, if an interest rate cap counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the interest rate cap agreement, we may not receive payments due under that agreement that would off-set our interest expense and then could incur a loss for the then remaining fair market value of the interest rate cap. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or a clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. While the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, among other current or proposed pieces of legislation, may add regulatory oversight or reduce counterparty risk among market participants, little of such oversight currently exists. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction most likely will result in a default. Default by a hedging counterparty may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. In addition, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. 42 We may change our investment strategy, investment guidelines and asset allocation without notice or stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. In addition, our charter provides that our Board of Directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to change our investment strategy or asset allocation at any time without notice to or consent from our stockholders. To the extent that our investment strategy changes in the future, we may make investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this annual report. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our allocating assets in a different manner than as described in this annual report. In addition, our charter provides that our Board of Directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to qualify as a REIT. These changes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Competition might prevent us from acquiring Agency MBS at favorable yields, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire Agency MBS at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring Agency MBS, we compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase Agency MBS, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Several other REITs have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us, such as funding from the U.S. Government. Additionally, many of our competitors are not subject to REIT tax compliance or required to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments. Furthermore, competition for investments in Agency MBS may lead the price of such investments to increase, which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns. As a result, we may not be able to acquire sufficient Agency MBS at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our Agency MBS or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economies. They also could result in economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our Agency MBS or the securities markets in general, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. 43 We are highly dependent on communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments. These systems are operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation. In the event of a systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including Agency MBS trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. If we issue debt securities, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our Class A Common Stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets. Such additional restrictive covenants and operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We depend primarily on two individuals to operate our business, and the loss of one or both of such persons could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We depend substantially on two individuals, Robert E. Cauley, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and G. Hunter Haas, our President, Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to manage our business. We depend on the diligence, experience and skill of Mr. Cauley and Mr. Haas in managing all aspects of our business, including the selection, acquisition, structuring and monitoring of securities portfolios and associated borrowings. Although we have entered into contracts and compensation arrangements with Mr. Cauley and Mr. Haas that encourage their continued employment, those contracts may not prevent either Mr. Cauley or Mr. Haas from leaving our company. The loss of either of them could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Loss of our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act would negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We have operated and intend to continue to operate our business so as to be exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act, because we are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Specifically, we invest and intend to continue to invest so that at least 55% of the assets that we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of qualifying mortgages and other liens and interests in real estate, which are collectively referred to as “qualifying real estate assets,” and so that at least 80% of the assets we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of real estate-related assets (including our qualifying real estate assets). We treat Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae whole-pool residential PT MBS issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by the pool as qualifying real estate assets based on no-action letters issued by the SEC. To the extent that the SEC publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, we may fail to qualify for this exemption. 44 On August 31, 2011, the SEC issued a concept release (No. IC-29778; File No. SW7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage-Related Instruments) pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in MBS and rely on the exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act (such as us) should continue to be allowed to rely on such exemption from registration. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, we could be required to restructure our activities in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, which could negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends. For example, if the market value of our investments in CMOs or structured Agency MBS, neither of which are qualifying real estate assets, were to increase by an amount that resulted in less than 55% of our assets being invested in PT Agency MBS, we might have to sell CMOs or structured Agency MBS in order to maintain our exemption from the Investment Company Act. The sale could occur during adverse market conditions, and we could be forced to accept a price below that which we believe is acceptable. Alternatively, if we fail to qualify for this exemption, we may have to register under the Investment Company Act and we could become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters. Failure to obtain and maintain an exemption from being regulated as a commodity pool operator could subject us to additional regulation and compliance requirements and may result in fines and other penalties which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive new regulatory framework for derivative contracts commonly referred to as “swaps.” As a result, any investment fund that trades in swaps may be considered a “commodity pool,” which would cause its operators (in some cases the fund’s directors) to be regulated as “commodity pool operators,” or CPOs. Under new rules adopted by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, those funds that become commodity pools solely because of their use of swaps must register with the National Futures Association, or the NFA. Registration requires compliance with the CFTC’s regulations and the NFA’s rules with respect to capital raising, disclosure, reporting, recordkeeping and other business conduct. However, the CFTC’s Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight recently issued a no-action letter saying, although it believes that mortgage REITs are properly considered commodity pools, it would not recommend that the CFTC take enforcement action against the operator of a mortgage REIT who does not register as a CPO if, among other things, the mortgage REIT limits the initial margin and premiums required to establish its swaps, futures and other commodity interest positions to not more than five percent (5%) of its total assets, the mortgage REIT limits the net income derived annually from those commodity interest positions which are not qualifying hedging transactions to less than five percent (5%) of its gross income, and interests in the mortgage REIT are not marketed to the public as or in a commodity pool or otherwise as or in a vehicle for trading in the commodity futures, commodity options or swaps markets. We use hedging instruments in conjunction with our investment portfolio and related borrowings to reduce or mitigate risks associated with changes in interest rates, mortgage spreads, yield curve shapes and market volatility. These hedging instruments include interest rate swaps, interest rate futures and options on interest rate futures. We do not currently engage in any speculative derivatives activities or other non-hedging transactions using swaps, futures or options on futures. We do not use these instruments for the purpose of trading in commodity interests, and we do not consider our company or its operations to be a commodity pool as to which CPO registration or compliance is required. We have claimed the relief afforded by the above-described no-action letter. Consequently, we will be restricted to operating within the parameters discussed in the no-action letter and will not enter into hedging transactions covered by the no-action letter if they would cause us to exceed the limits set forth in the no-action letter. However, there can be no assurance that the CFTC will agree that we are entitled to the no-action letter relief claimed. 45 The CFTC has substantial enforcement power with respect to violations of the laws over which it has jurisdiction, including their anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions. For example, the CFTC may suspend or revoke the registration of or the no-action relief afforded to a person who fails to comply with commodities laws and regulations, prohibit such a person from trading or doing business with registered entities, impose civil money penalties, require restitution and seek fines or imprisonment for criminal violations. In the event that the CFTC asserts that we are not entitled to the no-action letter relief claimed, we may be obligated to furnish additional disclosures and reports, among other things. Further, a private right of action exists against those who violate the laws over which the CFTC has jurisdiction or who willfully aid, abet, counsel, induce or procure a violation of those laws. In the event that we fail to comply with statutory requirements relating to derivatives or with the CFTC’s rules thereunder, including the no-action letter described above, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties and other civil or governmental actions or proceedings, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into a management agreement to manage Orchid Island Capital, Inc. We may compete for opportunities to acquire assets, which are allocated in accordance with the Investment Allocation Agreement by and among Orchid and us. From time to time we may seek to purchase for ourselves the same or similar assets that we seek to purchase for Orchid. In such an instance, we may allocate such opportunities in a manner that preferentially favors Orchid. We will make available to Orchid opportunities to acquire assets that we determine, in our reasonable and good faith judgment, based on the objectives, policies and strategies, and other relevant factors, are appropriate for Orchid in accordance with the Investment Allocation Agreement. Because many of our targeted assets are typically available only in specified quantities and because many of our targeted assets are also targeted assets for Orchid, we may not be able to buy as much of any given asset as required to satisfy the needs of Orchid and our own. In these cases, the Investment Allocation Agreement will require the allocation of such assets to both accounts in proportion to their needs and available capital. The Investment Allocation Agreement will permit departure from such proportional allocation when (i) allocating purchases of whole-pool Agency MBS, because those securities cannot be divided into multiple parts to be allocated among various accounts, and (ii) such allocation would result in an inefficiently small amount of the security being purchased for an account. In that case, the Investment Allocation Agreement allows for a protocol of allocating assets so that, on an overall basis, each account is treated equitably. There are conflicts of interest in our relationships with Orchid, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship as Manager of Orchid. All of our executive officers may have conflicts between their duties to us and their duties to Orchid as its Manager. We may acquire or sell assets in which Orchid may have an interest. Similarly, Orchid may acquire or sell assets in which we have or may have an interest. Although such acquisitions or dispositions may present conflicts of interest, we nonetheless may pursue and consummate such transactions. Additionally, we may engage in transactions directly with Orchid, including the purchase and sale of all or a portion of a portfolio asset. Our officers devote as much time to us and to Orchid as Manager as they deem appropriate. However, these officers may have conflicts in allocating their time and services among us and Orchid as Manager. During turbulent conditions in the mortgage industry, distress in the credit markets or other times when we will need focused support and assistance from our employees, Orchid and other entities for which we may act as Manager in the future will likewise require greater focus and attention, placing our personnel resources in high demand. In such situations, we may not receive the necessary support and assistance we require or would otherwise receive if we were not acting as manager of one or more other entities. 46 We, directly or through Orchid, may obtain confidential information about the companies or securities in which we have invested or may invest. If we possess confidential information about such companies or securities, there may be restrictions on our ability to dispose of, increase the amount of, or otherwise take action with respect to the securities of such companies. Our management of other accounts could create a conflict of interest to the extent our officers are aware of material non-public information concerning potential investment decisions. We have implemented compliance procedures and practices designed to ensure that investment decisions are not made while in possession of material non-public information. We cannot assure you, however, that these procedures and practices will be effective. In addition, this conflict and these procedures and practices may limit the freedom of our officers to make potentially profitable investments, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. These limitations imposed by access to confidential information could therefore materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Mr. Cauley, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, also serves as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Orchid and may own shares of common stock of Orchid in the future. Mr. Haas, our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer and President, is a member of the Board of Directors of Orchid, serves as the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer and Treasurer of Orchid and may own shares of common stock of Orchid in the future. Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Jaumot, the two independent members of our Board of Directors, own shares of common stock of Orchid at the time of this filing and may continue to own shares in the future. Accordingly, Messrs. Cauley, Haas, Dwyer and Jaumot may have a conflict of interest with respect to actions by our Board of Directors that relate to Orchid as its Manager. Upon the closing of Orchid’s IPO, Bimini owns 29.38% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Orchid. In evaluating opportunities for ourselves and Orchid, this may lead us to emphasize certain asset acquisition, disposition or management objectives over others, such as balancing risk or capital preservation objectives against return objectives. This could increase the risks or decrease the returns of your investment in our common stock. We incurred considerable cost in sponsoring the initial public offering of Orchid. We did so in return for the ability to earn management fees and share a portion of our overhead costs in the future. If the independent board of Orchid elected to not renew or to cancel the management agreement with us, we may not be able to recoup the costs incurred in bringing Orchid to market. Even if Orchid elected not to renew the management agreement without cause, and would be required to pay us a substantial termination fee, this fee, in conjunction with any management fees collected or overhead costs shared prior to the early termination of the agreement, may not be sufficient to recoup the costs we incurred in bringing Orchid to market. Orchid may elect not to renew the management agreement, even without cause. With the consent of the majority of their independent directors, Orchid may elect not to renew our management agreement after the initial term of the management agreement, which expires on February 20, 2016, or upon the expiration of any automatic renewal term, both upon 180-days’ prior written notice. If Orchid elects to not renew the agreement because of a decision by its Board of Directors that the management fee is unfair, we have the right to renegotiate a mutually agreeable management fee. If Orchid elects to not renew the management agreement without cause, it is required to pay us a termination fee equal to three times the average annual management fee incurred during the prior 24-month period immediately preceding the most recently completed calendar quarter prior to the effective date of termination. While these provisions may increase the effective cost of electing to not renew the management agreement, the fee may be insufficient to recoup the costs we incurred in bringing Orchid to market and completing its initial public offering. 47 Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, subsequent to the closing of Orchid’s IPO, we will continue to consolidate Orchid in our consolidated financial statements. Since the board of directors of Orchid is comprised of a majority of directors that are independent, their actions may not always be in our best interests. Accordingly, their actions may lead to outcomes that cause our consolidated financial statements, after consolidating Orchid’s financial statements, to make it difficult to obtain needed financing, or to do so on unfavorable terms. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, subsequent to the closing of Orchid’s IPO we will continue to consolidate the financial statements of Orchid into our own. Because we own a material interest in Orchid, approximately 29.38% at the closing of Orchid’s IPO, and play a substantial role in directing the activities of Orchid as a result of being their Manager, we must consolidate the operations of Orchid onto our financial statements. This will cause the total assets and liabilities on our balance sheet to appear larger than they would otherwise and our statement of operations to reflect larger revenues and expenses than would be the case absent consolidation. However, since the operations of Orchid are also impacted by the board of directors of Orchid, the majority of whom are independent directors with no affiliation with Bimini, their actions could lead to outcomes that have a material negative impact on their operations or financial condition. Upon consolidation, this would impact our results of operations and financial condition, thereby possibly impacting our ability to obtain needed financing for our operations, or our ability to do so on favorable terms. LEGAL AND TAX RISKS If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and may face a substantial tax liability. We intend to operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, REIT qualification involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis) established under technical and complex provisions of the Code, as amended, or regulations under the Code, for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. The determination that we qualify as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. For instance, a lack of access to adequate financing may prevent us from maintaining a portfolio of sufficient size to satisfy the REIT qualification requirements. Such could be the case when market conditions become severely distressed and/or the Company’s financial condition deteriorates materially. Accordingly, it is not certain we will be able to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Even a technical or inadvertent violation of the REIT requirements could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might change the tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having a retroactive effect that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: · we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders, and could force us to liquidate assets at inopportune times, causing lower income or higher losses than would result if these assets were not liquidated; and · unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our REIT qualification, and our cash available for distribution to its stockholders therefore would be reduced for each of the years in which we do not qualify as a REIT. 48 Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. We may also be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to our stockholders at unfavorable times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely with the goal of maximizing profits. In addition, the REIT provisions of the Code impose a 100% tax on income from "prohibited transactions." Prohibited transactions generally include sales of assets that constitute inventory or other property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than foreclosure property. This 100% tax could impact our ability to sell mortgage-related securities at otherwise opportune times if we believe such sales could result in our being treated as engaging in prohibited transactions. However, we would not be subject to this tax if we were to sell assets through a taxable REIT subsidiary. We will also be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements between us and our taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively, which could in turn leave us more exposed to the effects of adverse changes in interest rates. The REIT provisions of the Code may substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-related securities and related borrowings by generally requiring us to limit our income in each year from qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified REIT real estate assets, to less than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate gross income from non-qualified hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may in the future have to limit the use of hedges or implement hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur. If we fail to satisfy the 25% or 5% limitations, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect and we meet certain other technical requirements, we could lose our REIT qualification. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of income in excess of certain thresholds, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. Dividends paid by REITs are not qualified dividends eligible for reduced tax rates. In general, the current maximum federal income tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid to individual U.S. stockholders is less than the tax rate for dividends that do not qualify. Dividends paid by REITs, however, are generally not qualified dividends eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends, which are usually qualified dividends, could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of all REITs, including our Class A Common Stock. 49 To maintain our REIT qualification, we may be forced to borrow funds on unfavorable terms or sell our MBS portfolio securities at unfavorable prices to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes from, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our net taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our mortgage-related securities at unfavorable prices or find other sources of funds in order to meet the REIT distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. These other sources could increase our costs or reduce equity and reduce amounts available to invest in mortgage-related securities. Reliance on legal opinions or statements by issuers of mortgage-related securities could result in a failure to comply with REIT gross income or asset tests. When purchasing mortgage-related securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether and to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the REIT gross income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and could result in significant corporate-level tax. Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect us and our stockholders. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Our business may be harmed by changes to the laws and regulations affecting us, including changes to securities laws and changes to the Code provisions applicable to the taxation of REITs. New legislation may be enacted into law, or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could adversely affect us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. We may recognize excess inclusion income that would increase the tax liability of our stockholders. If we recognize excess inclusion income and that is allocated to our stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, such income would be subject to federal income tax withholding without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. In addition, to the extent our stock is owned by tax-exempt "disqualified organizations," such as government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business taxable income, although Treasury regulations have not yet been drafted to clarify the law, we may incur a corporate level tax at the highest applicable corporate tax rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income that is allocable to such disqualified organizations. 50 Excess inclusion income could result if we hold a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. Excess inclusion income also could be generated if we were to issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bore a relationship to the payments received on our mortgage-related securities securing those debt obligations (i.e., if we were to own an interest in a taxable mortgage pool). However, Treasury regulations have not been issued regarding the allocation of excess inclusion income to stockholders of a REIT that owns an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. We do not expect to acquire significant amounts of residual interests in REMICs, other than interests already owned by our taxable REIT subsidiary, which is treated as a separate taxable entity for these purposes. We intend to structure borrowing arrangements in a manner designed to avoid generating significant amounts of excess inclusion income. We do, however, expect to enter into various repurchase agreements that have differing maturity dates and afford the lender the right to sell any pledged mortgaged securities if we should default on our obligations. A portion of our distributions may be deemed a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The amount of our distributions to the holders of our Class A Common Stock in a given year may not correspond to REIT taxable income for that year. To the extent our distributions exceed our REIT taxable income, the distribution will be treated as a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital distribution will not be taxable to the extent of a stockholder's tax basis in our shares but will reduce a stockholder's basis in our shares of Class A Common Stock. Our reported GAAP financial results differ from the taxable income results that drive our dividend distributions. Our dividend distributions are driven by the dividend distribution requirements under the REIT tax laws and our profits as calculated for tax purposes pursuant to the Code. Our reported results for GAAP purposes may differ materially from both our cash flows and our REIT taxable income. As a result of the significant differences between GAAP and REIT taxable income accounting, stockholders and analysts must undertake a complex analysis to understand our tax results and dividend distribution requirements. This complexity may hinder the trading of our stock or may lead observers to misinterpret our results. Legislation related to corporate governance has increased our costs of compliance and our liability. Enacted and proposed laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and disclosure requirements applicable to public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased the costs of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. These costs may increase in the future due to our continuing implementation of compliance programs mandated by these requirements. In addition, these new laws, rules and regulations create new legal bases for administrative enforcement, civil and criminal proceedings against us in case of non-compliance, thereby increasing our risks of liability and potential sanctions. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would harm our results of operations. We intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced and we would be unable to conduct our business. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on, and interests in, real estate. Under the current interpretation of the SEC staff, in order to qualify for this exemption, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in these qualifying real estate interests, with at least 25% of remaining assets invested in real estate-related securities. Mortgage-related securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not qualify for purposes of the 55% requirement. Therefore, our ownership of these mortgage-related securities is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. 51 In satisfying the 55% requirement under the Investment Company Act, we treat as qualifying interests mortgage-related securities issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we hold all issued certificates. If the SEC or its staff adopts a contrary interpretation of such treatment, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our mortgage-related securities under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, in order to ensure that we at all times qualify for the exemption under the Investment Company Act, we may be precluded from acquiring mortgage-related securities whose yield is higher than the yield on mortgage-related securities that could be purchased in a manner consistent with the exemption. These factors may increase our net loss. MortCo may be obligated to repurchase certain mortgage loans it originated if applicable underwriting requirements were not satisfied. Such repurchases could adversely affect the financial condition of MortCo and further limit its ability to repay amounts owed to us. Prior to ceasing its operations in April 2007, MortCo originated residential mortgage loans. Those loans were typically sold to Fannie Mae, and the related mortgage servicing rights were typically sold to third-party servicing companies. Fannie Mae, servicing companies and certain investors have made repurchase claims to MortCo regarding certain residential mortgage loans that were originated by MortCo. These claims generally result from a default by a borrower under a loan followed by a rescission of mortgage insurance coverage due to an alleged underwriting deficiency. If MortCo is required to repurchase loans or pay losses incurred by Fannie Mae, servicing companies, investors or other third parties on a significant number of loans, then the financial condition of MortCo and its already limited ability to repay debt that it owes to us will be adversely affected. There is a limited market for our Class A Common Stock. Since November 5, 2007, our Class A Common Stock has traded on the OTC bulletin board under the symbol “BMNM.OB”. We may apply to list our Class A Common Stock on a national securities market in the future; however, even if listed on a national securities market, the ability to buy and sell our Class A Common Stock may be limited due to our small public float, and significant sales may depress or result in a decline in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Additionally, until such time that our Class A Common Stock is approved for listing on another national securities market, our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities may be limited. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 