Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial and operating results are subject to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include the following: If we fail to develop or market new products and enhance existing products, we could lose market share to our competitors and our results of operations could suffer. The market for interventional devices is characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, technological improvements, changes in physician requirements and evolving industry standards. To be successful, we must continue to develop and commercialize new products and to enhance versions of our existing products. Our products are technologically complex and require significant research, planning, design, development and testing before they may be marketed. This process generally takes at least 12 to 18 months from initial concept and may take up to several years. In addition, product life cycles are relatively short because medical device manufacturers continually develop smaller, more effective and less expensive versions of existing devices in response to physician demand. Our success in developing and commercializing new and enhanced versions of our products is affected by our ability to: • recruit engineers; • timely and accurately identify new market trends; • accurately assess customer needs; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain regulatory clearance or approval; • adopt competitive pricing; • timely manufacture and deliver products; • accurately predict and control costs associated with the development, manufacturing and support of our products; and • anticipate and compete effectively with our competitors’ efforts. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on our ability to demonstrate that our products are cost-effective and easier to use, as well as offer technological advantages. Additionally, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or new versions of our existing products. As a result of such difficulties and delays, our development expenses may increase and, as a consequence, our results of operations could suffer. We face intense competition in the medical device industry. We may be unable to compete effectively with respect to technological innovation and price which may have an adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We may not be able to compete effectively, and we may lose market share to our competitors. Our primary device competitors include: Boston Scientific Corporation; Cook Medical; Navilyst Medical; Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, Inc.; C.R. Bard; Medical Components, Inc., or Medcomp; Arrow International, a subsidiary of TeleFlex Medical; Smith’s Medical, a subsidiary of Smiths Group plc; Vascular Solutions; Covidien subsidiaries (Kendall, VNUS, EV3) and Merit Medical (Biosphere Medical). Many of our competitors have substantially greater: • financial and other resources to devote to product acquisitions, research and development, marketing and manufacturing; 19 Table of Contents • variety of products; • technical capabilities; • history of developing and introducing new products; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • name recognition; and • distribution networks and in-house sales forces. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products earlier, in obtaining patent protection or regulatory clearance earlier, or in commercializing new products or technologies more rapidly than us. Our competitors may also develop products and technologies that are superior to those we are developing or that otherwise could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may face competition from providers of other medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies, that may offer non-surgical therapies for conditions that are currently or in the future may be treated using our products. Our products are generally sold at higher prices than those of our competitors. However, in the current environment of managed care, which is characterized by economically motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we are increasingly being required to compete on the basis of price. If we are not able to compete effectively, our market share and revenues may decline. Development and sales of our NanoKnife Ablation products are dependent on a number of factors beyond our control, and our inability to successfully complete our research and development, design and marketing strategy with respect to NanoKnife Ablation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant aspect of our growth strategy is the continued development of our NanoKnife Ablation products. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop and manufacture additional next generation or updated NanoKnife Ablation products on commercially favorable terms, or at all. NanoKnife Ablation is a developing technology and the inability of NanoKnife Ablation to achieve clinical acceptance could severely limit the sales of NanoKnife Ablation products. We currently have FDA 510(k) clearance to market NanoKnife Ablation products for soft tissue ablation. If we are not able to secure FDA marketing approval for additional or more specific indications, through 510(k) clearance, pre-market approval or otherwise, our ability to market our NanoKnife Ablation products will be restricted which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to risks associated with acquisitions, including integration risks and risks associated with methods of financing and the impact of accounting treatment. Accordingly, completed acquisitions may not enhance our financial position or results of operations. Part of our growth strategy is to acquire businesses and technologies that are complementary to ours. There is no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals. Any acquisitions that we do undertake would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions, including the: • potential disruption of our business while we evaluate opportunities, complete acquisitions and develop and implement new business strategies to take advantage of these opportunities; • inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by incorporating an acquired technology or business into our existing offerings; • difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; 20 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and • uncertainty as to the long-term success of any acquisitions we may make. There is no assurance that any completed acquisition will be accretive to our margins or profits in the short term or in the long term. If we proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration consists of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash could be used to consummate the acquisitions. If we consummate one or more acquisitions in which the consideration consists of capital stock, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interest in us. In addition, we could incur or assume significant amounts of indebtedness in connection with acquisitions. Further, acquisitions could also result in significant goodwill and/or amortization charges for acquired businesses or technologies. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to generate revenues from new or existing products and our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. However, no assurances can be made that any pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, that any current or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, or that our patents will not be found invalid. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Although we require our new employees, consultants and corporate partners to execute confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. On July 29, 2009, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Vascular Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ: VASC). The complaint alleges that Vascular Solutions’ Vari-Lase Bright-Tip fiber product line infringes on claims of two AngioDynamics’ patents, US 7,273,478 and US 7,559,329. These patents relate to methods of treating varicose veins using endovenous laser treatments. Vascular Solutions has filed with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Offices, or PTO, requests for inter partes reexamination of the ‘478 and ‘329 patents. The PTO has initiated reexamination of these patents. No final ruling on the merits has been made at this time. Vascular Solutions has denied the allegations of infringement and has counterclaimed for a declaratory judgment that it does not infringe, that the patents are invalid and that the patents are unenforceable as a result of alleged inequitable conduct. If Vascular Solutions is ultimately successful in convincing the PTO or a court that our patents are invalid, we could lose the ability to assert these patents against other third parties. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property, our market share, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. If third parties claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time defending against such actions and our financial condition and our results of operations could suffer. Third parties may claim that our products infringe their patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult because, in general, patent applications can be maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months after their earliest priority date. Some companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If a 21 Table of Contents competitor were to challenge our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights, or assert that our products infringe its patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive changes to our product design, pay royalties or other fees to license rights in order to continue manufacturing and selling our products, or pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only consume our financial resources but also divert our management’s time and effort. Such claims could also cause our customers or potential customers to purchase competitors’ products or defer or limit their purchase or use of our affected products until resolution of the claim. We are dependent on single and limited source suppliers which subjects our business and results of operations to risks of supplier business interruptions. We currently purchase significant amounts of several key products and product components from single and limited source suppliers and anticipate that we will do so for future products as well. For fiscal 2011, approximately 32% of our product sales were derived from sales of products manufactured for us by third parties. One supplier, Biocompatibles UK Limited, now BTG PLC, supplies our LC Beads™ embolization products that accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales for fiscal 2011. Another supplier, Medcomp, currently supplies most of our dialysis catheters. Medcomp products accounted for approximately 7% of our net sales for fiscal 2011. Medcomp also competes with us by selling catheters that we do not purchase from them. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in those or other products and components could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and result in the cancellation of orders for our products. Any or all of these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these products and components at any time. Due to FDA and other business considerations, we may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in production delays and increased costs and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify alternative sources of supply, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products. Expiration of Our Supply and Distribution Agreement with Biocompatibles UK Limited May have a Material Impact on Our Results of Operations. We currently sell the embolization product, LC Bead, pursuant to a Supply and Distribution Agreement with Biocompatibles UK Limited, now BTG PLC, which grants us the exclusive distribution rights to the product in the United States until December 31, 2011. We will not distribute LC Beads in the U.S. beyond December 31, 2011. The LC Bead product line represented approximately 13% of our net sales for fiscal 2011. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for the revenue generated by LC Beads on acceptable terms or at all. Not having the rights to distribute LC Beads beyond December 31, 2011 could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We performed an interim goodwill impairment test on the Oncology/Surgery segment as of April 30, 2011 as a result of the decision to terminate the LC Beads distribution contract in December 2011. Our assessment of goodwill impairment indicated that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore goodwill was not impaired. Current economic instability could adversely affect our operations. Financial markets and the economies in the United States and internationally have been experiencing a period of upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. This has resulted in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability in the market, which could impair our ability to access capital if required or adversely affect our operations. Similarly, our customers and suppliers may experience financial 22 Table of Contents difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or decision to purchase our products, particularly capital equipment, or to pay for our products they do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. The economic downturn may also, among other things, create downward pressure on the pricing of our products, increase the sales cycle of certain products and slow the adoption of new technology, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which has led to certain costs and business distractions as we respond to inquiries and comply with new regulations, and may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future. Our medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. In addition, certain states, including Massachusetts, have recently passed or are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring disclosure of many payments to them. The federal government has recently introduced similar legislation, which may or may not preempt state laws. Recent Supreme Court case law has clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices preempts state tort laws, but legislation has been introduced at the federal level to allow state intervention, which could lead to increased and inconsistent regulation at the state level. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flow would suffer. Healthcare policy changes, including recent laws to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law and on March 30, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 was signed into law. Together, the two measures make the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. The Health Care Reform laws include a large number of health-related provisions to take effect over the next four years, including expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, requiring manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. Effective in 2013, there will be a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices. 23 Table of Contents In addition, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the enacted excise tax may materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. If we do not maintain our reputation with interventional physicians, our growth will be limited and our business could be harmed. Physicians typically influence the medical device purchasing decisions of the hospitals and other healthcare institutions in which they practice. Consequently, our reputation with interventional physicians is critical to our continued growth. We believe that we have built a positive reputation based on the quality of our products, our physician-driven product development efforts, our marketing and training efforts and our presence at medical society meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in the quality of our products, or our failure or inability to maintain these other efforts, could damage our reputation with interventional physicians and cause our growth to be limited and our business to be harmed. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including managerial, sales and technical personnel. We compete for key personnel with other companies, healthcare institutions, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We do not have written employment agreements with our executive officers. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel or hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future. Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. Our products have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected defects. When these problems occur, we must divert the attention of our engineering personnel to address them. There is no assurance that we will not incur warranty or repair costs, be subject to liability claims for damages related to product defects, or experience manufacturing, shipping or other delays or interruptions as a result of these defects in the future. Our insurance policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. In addition, the occurrence of defects may result in significant customer relations problems and injury to our reputation, and may impair market acceptance of our products. If a product liability claim is brought against us or our product liability insurance coverage is inadequate, our business could be harmed. The design, manufacture and marketing of the types of medical devices we sell entail an inherent risk of product liability. Our products are used by physicians to treat seriously ill patients. We are periodically subject to product liability claims, and patients or customers may in the future bring claims in a number of circumstances and for a number of reasons, including if our products were misused, if a component of our product fails, if their manufacture or design was flawed, if they produced unsatisfactory results or if the instructions for use and operating manuals and disclosure of product related risks for our products were found to be inadequate. In addition, individuals or groups seeking to represent a class may file suit against us. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential losses relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We carry a product liability policy with a limit of $10,000,000 per product liability claim and an aggregate policy limit of $10,000,000, subject to deductibles of $250,000 per occurrence and $1,250,000 in the aggregate. 24 Table of Contents We believe, based on claims made against us in the past, our existing product liability insurance coverage is reasonably adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur. However, there is no assurance that this coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing any coverage in the future. Additionally, if one or more product liability claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Further, such claims may require us to recall some of our products, which could result in significant costs to us and could divert management’s attention from our business. Changes in reimbursement levels by governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using our products may cause our revenues to decline. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g. Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. Third-party payors have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include: • controls on government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and price controls on medical products and services providers; • challenges to the pricing of medical procedures or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific devices and therapies through other means; and • the introduction of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. We are unable to predict whether federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Changes in healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or denies coverage for these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them. If we cannot obtain and maintain marketing clearance or approval from governmental agencies, we will not be able to sell our products. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the foreign countries in which they are sold. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval (PMA) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, before the product can be sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure, also known as “premarket notification,” is the process we have used for our current products. This process usually takes from four to 12 months from the date the premarket notification is submitted to the FDA, but may take significantly longer. Although we have obtained 25 Table of Contents 510(k) clearances for our current products, our clearances may be revoked by the FDA if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. The PMA process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It generally takes from one to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Regulatory regimes in other countries similarly require approval or clearance prior to our marketing or selling products in those countries. We rely on our distributors to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals of our products outside of the United States. If we are unable to obtain additional clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products in the United States or elsewhere or obtain these clearances or approvals in a timely fashion or at all, or if our existing clearances are revoked, our revenues and profitability may decline. Modifications to our current products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to an FDA-cleared medical device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. We have modified aspects of some of our devices since receiving regulatory clearance. We believed that some of these modifications did not require new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval and, therefore, we did not seek new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received FDA clearance or approval and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulations in other countries in which we market or sell, or propose to market or sell, our products may also require that we make judgments about changes to our products and whether or not those changes are such that regulatory approval or clearance should be obtained. In the United States and elsewhere, regulatory authorities may disagree with our past or future decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other applicable postmarket requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may be subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the FDA or a court instituting a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, including a public warning letter; an order to shut-down some or all manufacturing operations; a recall of products; fines or civil penalties; seizure or detention of our products; refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or a premarket approval, or PMA, of new or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals already granted to us; and criminal prosecution. Our manufacturing processes and those of some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. If we, or one of our suppliers, fail a QSR inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses, the FDA’s adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s reporting requirements for field correction or product removals. The FDA has recently placed increased emphasis on its scrutiny of compliance with the QSR and these other postmarket requirements. 26 Table of Contents If we, or one of our suppliers, violate the FDA’s requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take various enforcement actions which could cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. In addition, most other countries require us and our suppliers to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we, or our suppliers, should fail to do so, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those countries. Even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm our reputation and divert managerial and financial resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if there are material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture, installation, servicing or labeling of the device, or if the governmental entity finds that our products would cause serious adverse health consequences. A government mandated, voluntary recall or field action by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including labeling defects. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. If we are incorrect in our belief that our promotional materials and training methods regarding physicians are conducted in compliance with regulations of the FDA and other applicable regulations, and the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, the FDA could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. On January 24, 2011 we received a warning letter from the FDA in connection with our marketing of the NanoKnife System. In the warning letter, the FDA states that certain statements we made, including those on our company website, promote the use of the NanoKnife System beyond its currently cleared indications. We responded to the FDA and intend to work closely with them to resolve any outstanding issues. While we believe we have been fully responsive to the matters raised by the FDA in the warning letter, there can be no assurance that the FDA will be satisfied with our response. Therefore, we may be subject to additional regulatory action by the FDA, and any such actions could significantly disrupt our business and operations and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and health programs outside the United States. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. Furthermore, since many of our customers rely on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs to cover a substantial portion of their expenditures, our exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 27 Table of Contents If our employees or agents violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, we may incur fines or penalties, or experience other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws in international jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our sales to customers and distributors outside of the United States have been increasing and we expect them to continue to increase in the future. If our employees or agents violate the provisions of the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws, we may incur fines or penalties, we may be unable to market our products in other countries or we may experience other adverse consequences which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Failure to attract additional capital which we may require to expand our business could curtail our growth. We may require additional capital to expand our business. If cash generated internally is insufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt or equity financing. In addition, we may require financing to fund any significant acquisitions we may seek to make. Needed financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us and may result in significant stockholder dilution. Covenants in our industrial bond financing may also restrict our ability to obtain additional debt financing. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, selling assets, restructuring our operations or refinancing our indebtedness. Any disaster at our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our ability to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time, which could cause our revenues to decrease. We conduct our manufacturing and assembly at facilities in Queensbury, New York, Manchester, Georgia, and Cambridge, England. It would be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to transfer resources from one facility to the other, replace, or repair these facilities and our manufacturing equipment if they were significantly affected by a disaster. Additionally, we might be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers or to delay production of our products. Insurance for damage to our properties and the disruption of our business from disasters may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, if one of our principal suppliers were to experience a similar disaster, uninsured loss or under-insured loss, we might not be able to obtain adequate alternative sources of supplies or products or could face significant delays and incur substantial expense in doing so. Any significant uninsured loss, prolonged or repeated disruption, or inability to operate experienced by us or any of our principal suppliers could cause significant harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to manage our growth or successfully implement our internal reorganization may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Over the past several years we have experienced significant growth. Our inability to manage our growth or our internal reorganization into strategic divisions could impact our ability to meet our customers’ demands, which could cause future sales to suffer. Our stock price may be volatile, which may cause the value of our stock to decline or subject us to a securities class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • general economic, industry and market conditions; 28 Table of Contents • actions by institutional or other large stockholders; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • volume and timing of orders for our products; • developments generally affecting medical device companies; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • investor perceptions of us and our business, including changes in market valuations of medical device companies; • our results of operations and financial performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the market for medical devices in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and the diversion of management’s attention from our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change in control. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of our company or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Such provisions include: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; • our board of directors is classified so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time, which may make it more difficult for a person who acquires control of a majority of our outstanding voting stock to replace our directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholders to nominate individuals to serve on our board of directors or for stockholders to submit proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; • stockholders are not permitted to accumulate their votes for the election of directors; We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, which could delay or prevent a change in control of us even if the change in control is generally beneficial to our stockholders. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 29 Table of Contents Our goodwill and intangible assets are subject to potential impairment. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. At May 31, 2011, goodwill and intangible assets represented approximately $210 million, or approximately 48% of our total assets. During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011, we made the decision to not continue development of the Medron Lightport technology resulting in an impairment charge of $4.2 million to our Vascular division. All of our intangible assets have determinable useful lives and are amortized over their useful lives on either a straight-line basis or over the expected period of benefit or as revenues are earned from the sales of the related products. The underlying assumptions regarding the estimated useful lives of these intangible assets are reviewed annually and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable and are adjusted through accelerated amortization if necessary. We review our two reporting segments for potential goodwill impairment in the third fiscal quarter of each year as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in December 2010 indicated no goodwill impairments. We performed an interim goodwill impairment test on the Oncology/Surgery segment as of April 30, 2011 as a result of the decision to terminate the LC Beads distribution contract in December 2011. Our assessment of goodwill impairment indicated that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore goodwill was not impaired. If actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and intangible asset calculations, we could incur future (unanticipated) impairment or amortization charges, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 