Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial and operating results are subject to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include the following: If we fail to develop or market new products and enhance existing products, we could lose market share to our competitors and our results of operations could suffer. The market for interventional devices is characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, technological improvements, changes in physician requirements and evolving industry standards. To be successful, we must continue to develop and commercialize new products and to enhance versions of our 21 Table of Contents existing products. Our products are technologically complex and require significant planning, design, development and testing before they may be marketed. This process generally takes at least 12 to 18 months from initial concept and may take up to several years. In addition, product life cycles are relatively short because medical device manufacturers continually develop smaller, more effective and less expensive versions of existing devices in response to physician demand. Our success in developing and commercializing new and enhanced versions of our products is affected by our ability to: • timely and accurately identify new market trends; • accurately assess customer needs; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain regulatory clearance or approval; • adopt competitive pricing; • timely manufacture and deliver products; • accurately predict and control costs associated with the development, manufacturing and support of our products; and • anticipate and compete effectively with our competitors’ efforts. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on our ability to demonstrate that our products are cost-effective and easier to use, as well as offer technological advantages. Additionally, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new versions of our products. As a result of such difficulties and delays, our development expenses may increase and, as a consequence, our results of operations could suffer. Competition may decrease our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The markets for interventional devices are highly competitive, and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We may not be able to compete effectively, and we may lose market share to our competitors. The principal competitors in the markets for our products currently include: Boston Scientific Corporation; Cook, Incorporated; Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, Inc.; C.R. Bard Inc.; Radionics, a division of Tyco Healthcare, which is a division of Tyco International; Diomed Inc.; Medical Components, Inc., or Medcomp; and VNUS Medical Technologies, Inc. Many of our competitors have substantially greater: • financial and other resources; • variety of products; • technical capabilities; • ability to develop and introduce new products; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • name recognition; and • distribution networks and in-house sales forces. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products earlier, in obtaining patent protection or regulatory clearance earlier, or in commercializing new products or technologies more rapidly than us. Our competitors may also develop products and technologies that are superior to those we are developing or that otherwise could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, we may face competition from providers of other medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies, that may offer non-surgical therapies for conditions that are currently or in the future may be treated using our products. Our products are generally sold at higher prices than those of our competitors. However, in the current environment of managed care, which is characterized by economically motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we are increasingly being required to compete on the basis of price. If we are not able to compete effectively, our market share and revenues may decline. 22 Table of Contents We may be exposed to risks associated with acquisitions, including integration risks and risks associated with methods of financing and the impact of accounting treatment. Accordingly, completed acquisitions may not enhance our business. Part of our growth strategy is to acquire businesses and technologies that are complementary to ours. Any such acquisitions would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions, including the: • potential disruption of our business while we evaluate opportunities, complete acquisitions and develop and implement new business strategies to take advantage of these opportunities; • inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by incorporating an acquired technology or business into our existing offerings; • difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management; and • uncertainty as to the long-term success of any acquisitions we may make. We cannot assure you that any completed acquisition will enhance our business. If we proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration consists of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash, could be used to consummate the acquisitions. If we consummate one or more acquisitions in which the consideration consists of capital stock, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interest in us. In addition, we could incur or assume significant amounts of indebtedness in connection with acquisitions. Further, acquisitions could also result in significant goodwill and/or amortization charges for acquired businesses or technologies. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. However, these measures may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents to produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Although we require our new employees, consultants and corporate partners to execute confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. If third parties claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time defending against such actions and our results of operations could suffer. Third parties may claim that our products infringe their patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult because, in general, patent applications can be maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months after their earliest priority date. Some companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights, or assert that our products 23 Table of Contents infringe its patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive changes to our product design, license rights in order to continue manufacturing and selling our products, or pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only consume our financial resources but also divert our management’s time and effort. Such claims could also cause our customers or potential customers to purchase competitors’ products or defer or limit their purchase or use of our affected products until resolution of the claim. In January 2004, Diomed filed an action against us alleging that our VenaCure products for the treatment of varicose veins infringe a patent held by Diomed for a laser system that competes with our VenaCure products. In March 2007, the jury ruled in Diomed’s favor and awarded compensatory damages of $9.71 million. On July 2, 2007, the judge for the Federal District in Boston, Massachusetts, issued an injunction that prohibits us from selling our original bare fiber VenaCure product. We have disputed the infringement verdict on multiple grounds and on June 20, 2007, filed an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C In October 2005, VNUS Medical Technologies filed an action against us, Diomed and another defendant alleging, among other things, that the manufacture, use and sale of our VenaCure products infringe several patents held by VNUS and seeking injunctive relief and compensatory and treble damages. For fiscal 2007, sales of our VenaCure products accounted for approximately 11% of our total sales. If VNUS is ultimately successful in its action against us, our results of operations could suffer. See Item 3—Legal Proceedings. We are dependent on single and limited source suppliers, which puts us at risk for supplier business interruptions. We currently purchase significant amounts of several key products and product components from single and limited source suppliers and anticipate that we will do so for future products as well. For fiscal 2007, approximately 30% of our net sales were derived from sales of products manufactured for us by third parties. In addition, approximately 15% of our sales growth over our past two fiscal years was attributable to products that we licensed or obtained from third parties. Our principal single source supplier, Medcomp, supplies us with most of our dialysis catheters, which accounted for about 17% of our net sales (16% of total inventory purchases) in fiscal 2007. Medcomp also competes with us by selling Dynamic-Flow, a dialysis catheter for which it has not granted us exclusive rights, and other catheters that we do not purchase from them. Additionally, we purchase the laser and laser fibers, which are the principal components of our VenaCure products, primarily from biolitec, which also competes with us. Sales of our VenaCure products accounted for about 11% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. Our contract with biolitec expired in April 2007, and we have identified several other vendors for the lasers and laser fibers to replace those we purchase from biolitec. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in those products and components could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and result in the cancellation of orders for our products. Any or all of these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these products and components at any time. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in production delays and increased costs and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify alternative sources of supply, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products. If we do not maintain our relationships with interventional physicians, our growth will be limited and our business could be harmed. Physicians typically influence the medical device purchasing decisions of the hospitals and other healthcare institutions in which they practice. Consequently, our relationships with interventional physicians are critical to our continued growth. We believe that these relationships are based on the quality of our products, our physician-driven product development efforts, our marketing efforts and our presence at medical society meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in the quality of our products, or our failure or inability to maintain these other efforts, could damage our current relationships, or prevent us from forming new relationships, with interventional physicians and cause our growth to be limited and our business to be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including managerial, sales and technical personnel. We are particularly dependant upon the efforts of Eamonn P. Hobbs, our president and chief executive officer, a bio-medical engineer with over 26 years of experience in the interventional radiology, interventional cardiology and gastroenterology medical device industries. Mr. Hobbs is the only business executive from the medical device industry to ever serve on the Strategic Planning Committee of the Society of Interventional Radiology, or SIR, and he received an honorary fellowship from the SIR in 2005. We compete for key personnel with other companies, healthcare institutions, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We do not have written employment agreements with our executive officers. Our ability to maintain and expand our business may be impaired if we are unable to retain our current key personnel or hire or retain other qualified personnel in the future. Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products. Our products have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected defects. When these problems occur, we must divert the attention of our engineering personnel to address them. We cannot assure you that we will not incur warranty or repair costs, be subject to liability claims for damages related to product defects, or experience manufacturing, shipping or other delays or interruptions as a result of these defects in the future. Our insurance policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. In addition, the occurrence of defects may result in significant customer relations problems and injury to our reputation, and may impair market acceptance of our products. If a product liability claim is brought against us or our product liability insurance coverage is inadequate, our business could be harmed. The design, manufacture and marketing of the types of medical devices we sell entail an inherent risk of product liability. Our products are used by physicians to treat seriously ill patients. We have been subject to product liability claims in the past, and patients may in the future bring claims in a number of circumstances and for a number of reasons, including if our products were misused, if they produced unsatisfactory results or if the instructions for use and operating manuals for our products were found to be inadequate. Claims could also be brought by our customers. We carry a product liability policy with limits of $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per year, with a $250,000 deductible per incident and an aggregate deductible limit of $500,000 per year. We believe, based on claims made against us in the past, that our existing product liability insurance coverage is reasonably adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur. However, we cannot assure you that this coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing any coverage in the future. Additionally, if one or more product liability claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could be harmed. Further, such claims may require us to recall some of our products, which could result in significant costs to us and could divert management’s attention from our business. Healthcare reform could cause a decrease in demand for our interventional products. There are currently widespread legislative efforts to control healthcare costs in the United States and abroad, which we expect will continue in the future. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides that from 2004 through 2008, reimbursement levels for durable medical equipment will no longer be increased on an annual basis and a competitive bidding program will be introduced. At this time, we are unable to determine whether and to what extent these changes will apply to our products and our business. Similar legislative efforts in the future could negatively impact demand for our products. 25 Table of Contents Inadequate levels of reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using our products may cause our revenues to decline. Changes in healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products, as well as the way we conduct business. Third-party payors have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include: • controls on government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and price controls on medical products and services providers; • challenges to the pricing of medical procedures or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific devices and therapies through other means; and • the introduction of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. We are unable to predict whether Federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. These policies, or any reductions in the number of authorizations granted for procedures performed using our current and proposed products or in the levels of reimbursement for those procedures, could cause our revenues to decline. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. These systems are subject to the same pressures to curb rising healthcare costs and control healthcare expenditures as exist in the United States. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, sales of our products outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant non-U.S. sales. If we cannot obtain and maintain marketing clearance or approval from governmental agencies, we will not be able to sell our products. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the foreign countries in which they are sold. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, before the product can be sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure, also known as “premarket notification,” is the process we have used for our current products. This process usually takes from four to 12 months from the date the premarket notification is submitted to the FDA, but may take significantly longer. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearances for our current products, our clearances may be revoked by the FDA if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. The premarket approval process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It generally takes from one to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Regulatory regimes in other countries similarly require approval or clearance prior to our marketing or selling products in those countries. We rely on our distributors to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals of our products outside of the United States. If we are unable to obtain additional clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products in the United States or elsewhere or obtain these clearances or approvals in a timely fashion or at all, or if our existing clearances are revoked, our revenues and profitability may decline. Modifications to our current products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to an FDA-cleared medical device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own 26 Table of Contents determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. We have modified aspects of some of our devices since receiving regulatory clearance. We believed that some of these modifications did not require new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval and, therefore, we did not seek new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received FDA clearance or approval and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulations in other countries in which we market or sell, or propose to market or sell, our products may also require that we make judgments about changes to our products and whether or not those changes are such that regulatory approval or clearance should be obtained. In the United States and elsewhere, regulatory authorities may disagree with our past or future decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our business could suffer. If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, and other applicable postmarket requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may be subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the FDA or a court instituting a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, including a public warning letter; an order to shut-down some or all manufacturing operations; a recall of products; fines or civil penalties; seizure or detention of our products; refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or a premarket approval, or PMA, of new or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals already granted to us; and criminal prosecution. Our manufacturing processes and those of some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. If we or one of our suppliers fails a QSR inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses, the FDA’s adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA’s reporting requirements for field correction or product removals. The FDA has recently placed increased emphasis on its scrutiny of compliance with the QSR and these other postmarket requirements. If we or one of our suppliers violate the FDA’s requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take various enforcement actions which could cause our product sales and profitability to suffer. In addition, most other countries require us and our suppliers to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we or our suppliers should fail to do so, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those countries. Even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm our reputation and divert managerial and financial resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if there are material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture, installation, servicing or labeling of the device, or if the governmental entity finds that our 27 Table of Contents products would cause serious adverse health consequences. A government mandated or voluntary recall or field action by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including labeling defects. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. Failure to attract additional capital which we may require to expand our business could curtail our growth. We may require additional capital to expand our business. If cash generated internally is insufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt or equity financing. In addition, we may require financing to fund any significant acquisitions we may seek to make. Needed financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us and may result in significant stockholder dilution. Covenants in our industrial bond financing may also restrict our ability to obtain additional debt financing. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, selling assets, restructuring our operations or refinancing our indebtedness. Any disaster at our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our ability to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time, which could cause our revenues to decrease. We conduct our manufacturing and assembly at two facilities in Queensbury, New York, and Manchester, Georgia. It would be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to transfer resources from one facility to the other, replace, or repair these facilities and our manufacturing equipment if they were significantly affected by a disaster. Additionally, we might be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers or to delay production of our products. Insurance for damage to our properties and the disruption of our business from disasters may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, if one of our principal suppliers were to experience a similar disaster, uninsured loss or under-insured loss, we might not be able to obtain adequate alternative sources of supplies or products or could face significant delays and incur substantial expense in doing so. Any significant uninsured loss, prolonged or repeated disruption, or inability to operate experienced by us or any of our principal suppliers could cause significant harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 