ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS No assurance can be given that the actions taken by the U.S. Government for the purpose of seeking to stabilize the financial and credit markets and stimulate the economy will achieve the intended effect on, or benefit to, our business, and further government or market developments could adversely affect us. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system, the financial and housing markets and the economy as a whole, the U.S. Government has implemented a number of initiatives intended to bolster the banking system, the financial and housing markets and the economy as a whole. No assurance can be given that these initiatives will have a beneficial impact on the banking system, financial market or housing market. To the extent the markets do not respond favorably to these initiatives or if these initiatives do not function as intended, the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our assets and the availability of financing on attractive terms may be materially adversely affected. In addition, because the programs are designed, in part, to provide liquidity to restart the market for certain assets we typically invest in, the establishment of these programs may result in increased competition for these assets. It is also possible that our competitors may utilize the programs which would provide them with attractive debt and equity capital funding from the U.S. Government. In addition, the U.S. Government, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, and such actions could have a dramatic impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Interest rate mismatches between our Agency RMBS and our borrowings used to fund purchases of our Agency RMBS may reduce our net interest margin during periods of changing interest rates, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our portfolio includes Agency RMBS backed by ARMs, hybrid ARMs, and fixed-rate mortgages and the mix of these securities in the portfolio may be increased or decreased over time. Additionally, the interest rates on ARMs and hybrid ARMS may vary over time based on changes in a short-term interest rate index, of which there are many. We finance our acquisitions of Agency RMBS with short-term financing ARMs that have interest rates based on indices and repricing terms similar to, but perhaps with shorter maturities than, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of these securities. During periods of rising short-term interest rates, the income we earn on our Agency RMBS will not change (with respect to Agency RMBS backed by fixed-rate mortgage loans) or will not increase at the same rate (with respect to Agency RMBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs) as our related financing costs, which may reduce our net interest margin or result in losses. Interest rate fluctuations will also cause variances in the yield curve, which illustrates the relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve) or exceed long-term interest rates (an inversion of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on the related Agency RMBS because the related Agency RMBS may bear interest based on longer-term rates than our borrowings. Consequently, a flattening or inversion of the yield curve may reduce our net interest margin or result in losses. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from Agency RMBS are reinvested in new Agency RMBS, the spread between the yields of the new Agency RMBS and available borrowing rates may decline, which could reduce our net interest margin or result in losses. Any one of the foregoing risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We depend primarily on two individuals to operate our business, and the loss of one or both of such persons could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We depend substantially on two individuals, Robert E. Cauley, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and G. Hunter Haas, our President, Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to manage our business. We depend on the diligence, experience and skill of Mr. Cauley and Mr. Haas in managing all aspects of our business, including the selection, acquisition, structuring and monitoring of securities portfolios and associated borrowings. Although we have entered into contracts and compensation arrangements with Mr. Cauley and Mr. Haas that encourage their continued employment, those contracts may not prevent either Mr. Cauley or Mr. Haas from leaving our company. The loss of either of them could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business. The payments we receive on the Agency RMBS in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. Government-sponsored entities, or GSEs, but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Since 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, Congress and the U.S. Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these GSEs and the financial markets generally. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 was signed into law on July 30, 2008, and established the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, with enhanced regulatory authority over, among other things, the business activities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the size of their portfolio holdings. On September 7, 2008, in response to the deterioration in the financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, which is a statutory process pursuant to which the FHFA will operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as conservator in an effort to stabilize the entities, and together with the U.S. Treasury and the U.S. Federal Reserve, has undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, support the availability of mortgage financing and protect taxpayers. Appointing FHFA as conservator of both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac allows the FHFA to control the actions of the two GSEs without forcing them to liquidate, which would be the case under receivership. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has taken steps to capitalize and provide financing to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and agreed to purchase direct obligations and Agency RMBS issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. For a more detailed description of the actions taken by the U.S. Government with respect to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Trends and Recent Market Impacts.” Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, in announcing the actions, noted that the guarantee structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac required examination, and that changes in the structures of the entities were necessary to reduce risk to the financial system. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse market implications as well as negatively impact us. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the U.S. Government in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market. Following expiration of the current authorization, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the U.S. Government could decide to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire Agency RMBS from these companies, which would drastically reduce the amount and type of Agency RMBS available for investment, which are our only targeted investments. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we receive from Agency RMBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted investments and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of Agency RMBS could also increase the prices of Agency RMBS we seek to acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government and requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or the amount of Agency RMBS they guaranty. The effects of the actions taken by the U.S. Government remain uncertain. Furthermore, the scope and nature of the actions that the U.S. Government will ultimately take are unknown and will continue to evolve. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, and could also nationalize or eliminate these GSEs entirely. Any law affecting these GSEs may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac Agency RMBS. It is also possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our target assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Increased levels of prepayments on the mortgages underlying our Agency RMBS might decrease net interest income or result in a net loss, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by other factors, including, without limitation, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on ARMS, hybrid ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans. When we acquire Agency RMBS, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate, generating an expected yield. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, it results in corresponding prepayments on the related Agency RMBS that are faster than expected. Faster-than-expected prepayments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders in various ways, including the following: A portion of our Agency RMBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs may initially bear interest at rates that are lower than their fully indexed rates, which are equivalent to the applicable index rate plus a margin. If an Agency RMBS backed by ARMs or hybrid ARMs is prepaid prior to or soon after the time of adjustment to a fully-indexed rate, we will have held that Agency RMBS while it was less profitable and lost the opportunity to receive interest at the fully indexed rate over the remainder of its expected life. If we are unable to acquire new Agency RMBS to replace the prepaid Agency RMBS, our returns on capital may be lower than if we were unable to quickly acquire new Agency RMBS. While we seek to minimize prepayment risk, we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our Agency RMBS, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. During the second half of 2008, the U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Authority, or FHA, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. One such program is the Hope for Homeowners program, which is effective from October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2011 and will enable certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into FHA-insured loans. The programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, in February 2008 the U.S. Treasury announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is multi-faceted plan intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things: · allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; · creating the Homeowner Stability Initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and · allowing judicial modifications of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming residential mortgages loans during bankruptcy proceedings. It is likely that these loan modification programs would result in increased prepayments on some Agency RMBS. These loan modification programs, as well as legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Valuations of some of our assets are inherently uncertain, may be based on estimates, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may differ from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these assets existed. In many cases, our determination of the fair value of our assets is based on valuations provided by third-party dealers and pricing services. However, valuations of certain assets are often difficult to obtain or are unreliable. Therefore, we can and do value assets, to the extent third-party valuations are not reasonably available, based upon our judgment. Our valuations, for many reasons, may differ from those that could be obtained from third-party dealers and pricing services. In general, dealers and pricing services heavily disclaim their valuations. Additionally, dealers may claim to furnish valuations only as an accommodation and without special compensation, and so they may disclaim any and all liability for any direct, incidental, or consequential damages arising out of any inaccuracy or incompleteness in valuations, including any act of negligence or breach of any warranty. Depending on the complexity and illiquidity of an asset, valuations of the same asset can vary substantially from one dealer or pricing service to another. The valuation process has been particularly difficult recently as market events have made valuations of certain assets more difficult and unpredictable and the disparity of valuations provided by third-party dealers has widened. Our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially adversely affected if our fair value determinations of these assets were materially higher than the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these assets. We may incur increased borrowing costs which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements are generally adjustable and correspond to short-term interest rates, such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: · the movement of interest rates; · the availability of financing in the market; and · the value and liquidity of our Agency RMBS. Most of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. If the interest rates on these repurchase agreements increase, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. Interest rate caps on the ARMs and hybrid ARMs backing our Agency RMBS may reduce our net interest margin during periods of rising interest rates, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. ARMs and hybrid ARMs are typically subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through the maturity of the loan. Our borrowings typically are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, our financing costs could increase without limitation while caps could limit the interest we earn on the ARMs and hybrid ARMs backing our Agency RMBS. This problem is magnified for ARMs and hybrid ARMs that are not fully indexed. Further, some ARMs and hybrid ARMs may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we may receive less interest income on Agency RMBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs than necessary to pay interest on our related borrowings. Interest rate caps on Agency RMBS backed by ARMs and hybrid ARMs could reduce our net interest margin if interest rates were to increase beyond the level of the caps, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our leverage strategy could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Under normal market conditions, we generally seek to borrow between eight and 12 times the amount of our equity, although at times our borrowings may be above or below this range. We incur this indebtedness by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our Agency RMBS. Our total indebtedness, however, is not expressly limited by our policies and will depend on our and our prospective lenders’ estimates of the stability of our portfolio’s cash flow. As a result, there is no limit on the amount of leverage that we may incur. We face the risk that we might not be able to meet our debt service obligations or a lender’s margin requirements from our income and, to the extent we cannot, we might be forced to liquidate some of our Agency RMBS at unfavorable prices. Our use of leverage could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and our ability to pay distribution to our stockholders. For example: A majority of our borrowings are secured by our Agency RMBS, generally under repurchase agreements. A decline in the market value of the Agency RMBS used to secure these debt obligations could limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring us to pledge additional collateral to secure our borrowings. In that situation, we could be required to sell Agency RMBS under adverse market conditions in order to obtain the additional collateral required by the lender. If these sales are made at prices lower than the carrying value of the Agency RMBS, we would experience losses. A default under an Agency RMBS that constitutes collateral for a loan could result in an involuntary liquidation of the Agency RMBS, including any cross-collateralized Agency RMBS. This would result in a loss to us of the difference between the value of the Agency RMBS upon liquidation and the amount borrowed against the Agency RMBS. To the extent we are compelled to liquidate qualified REIT assets to repay debts, our compliance with the REIT rules regarding our assets and our sources of income could be negatively affected, which could jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. Losing our REIT qualification would cause us to lose tax advantages applicable to REITs and would decrease profitability and distributions to stockholders. If we experience losses as a result of our leverage policy, such losses would reduce the amounts available for distribution to stockholders. We depend on borrowings to purchase our Agency RMBS and reach our desired amount of leverage. If we fail to obtain or renew sufficient funding on favorable terms or at all, we will be limited in our ability to acquire Agency RMBS, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We depend on borrowings to fund acquisitions of Agency RMBS and reach our desired amount of leverage. Accordingly, our ability to achieve our investment and leverage objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. In addition, we must be able to renew or replace our maturing borrowings on a continuous basis. The current dislocation and weakness in the broader mortgage markets could adversely affect one or more of our potential lenders and could cause one or more of our potential lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing. This could potentially increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings on favorable terms or at all, we may have to sell our Agency RMBS under adverse market conditions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Adverse market developments could cause our lenders to require us to pledge additional assets as collateral. If our assets were insufficient to meet these collateral requirements, we might be compelled to liquidate particular assets at inopportune times and at unfavorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Adverse market developments, including a sharp or prolonged rise in interest rates, a change in prepayment rates or increasing market concern about the value or liquidity of one or more types of Agency RMBS, might reduce the market value of our portfolio, which might cause our lenders to require us to post additional collateral. Any requirement for additional collateral might compel us to liquidate our assets at inopportune times and at unfavorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral in the event of a bankruptcy filing. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. Because the assets that we acquire might experience periods of illiquidity, we might be prevented from selling our Agency RMBS at favorable times and prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Although we generally plan to hold our Agency RMBS until maturity, there may be circumstances in which we sell certain of these securities. Agency RMBS generally experience periods of illiquidity. Such conditions are more likely to occur for structured RMBS because such securities are generally traded in markets much less liquid than the non-structured Agency RMBS market. As a result, we may be unable to dispose of our Agency RMBS at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. The lack of liquidity might result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. The illiquidity of Agency RMBS could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Hedging against interest rate exposure may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. To the extent consistent with our qualification as a REIT, we may enter into interest rate cap or swap agreements or pursue other hedging strategies, including the purchase of puts, calls or other options and futures contracts in order to hedge the interest rate risk of our portfolio. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal prepayments, the type of Agency RMBS we hold, and other changing market conditions. Hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: · hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; · available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; · the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; · certain types of hedges may expose us to risk of loss beyond the fee paid to initiate the hedge; · the amount of income that a REIT may earn from certain hedging transactions is limited by federal income tax provisions governing REITs; · the credit quality of the counterparty on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and · the counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Because of the foregoing risks, our hedging activity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We may not be able to purchase interest rate caps on terms or prices that reduce our interest rate and prepayment risks, which could cause us to suffer a loss in the event of significant changes in interest rates. Our policies permit us to purchase interest rate caps to help us reduce our interest rate and prepayment risks associated with investments in Agency RMBS. This strategy helps us reduce our exposure to significant changes in interest rates. A cap contract is ultimately of no benefit to us unless interest rates exceed the cap rate. If we purchase interest rate caps but do not experience a corresponding increase in interest rates, the costs of buying the caps would reduce our earnings. Alternatively, we may decide not to enter into a cap transaction due to its expense, and we could suffer losses if interest rates later rise substantially. Any one of these outcomes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We rely on analytical models and other data to analyze potential asset acquisition and disposition opportunities and to manage our portfolio. Such models and other data may be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, which could cause us to purchase assets that do not meet our expectations or to make asset management decisions that are not in line with our strategy. We rely on analytical models and information and data supplied by third parties. These models and data may be used to value assets or potential asset acquisitions and dispositions and also in connection with our asset management activities. If our models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon could expose us to potential risks. Our reliance on models and data may induce us to purchase certain assets at prices that are too high, to sell certain other assets at prices that are too low, or to miss favorable opportunities altogether. Similarly, any hedging activities that are based on faulty models and data may prove to be unsuccessful. Some models, such as prepayment models, may be predictive in nature. The use of predictive models has inherent risks. For example, such models may incorrectly forecast future behavior, leading to potential losses. In addition, the predictive models used by us may differ substantially from those models used by other market participants, with the result that valuations based on these predictive models may be substantially higher or lower for certain assets than actual market prices. Furthermore, because predictive models are usually constructed based on historical data supplied by third parties, the success of relying on such models may depend heavily on the accuracy and reliability of the supplied historical data, and, in the case of predicting performance in scenarios with little or no historical precedent (such as extreme broad-based declines in home prices, or deep economic recessions or depressions), such models must employ greater degrees of extrapolation, and are therefore more speculative and of more limited reliability. All valuation models rely on correct market data input. If incorrect market data is entered into even a well-founded valuation model, the resulting valuations will be incorrect. However, even if market data is inputted correctly, “model prices” will often differ substantially from market prices, especially for securities with complex characteristics or whose values are particularly sensitive to various factors. If our market data inputs are incorrect or our model prices differ substantially from market prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially adversely affected. We may change our investment strategy and asset allocation without notice or stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. Our Board of Directors has the authority to change our investment strategy or asset allocation at any time without notice to or consent from our stockholders. To the extent that our investment strategy changes in the future, we may make investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this annual report. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our allocating assets in a different manner than as described in this annual report. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or a clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction most likely will result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. In addition, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to unexpected economic losses in the future. Swaps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the swap or option counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the counterparty. In addition, we also are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges or clearing houses on which we trade. To the extent consistent with our qualification as a REIT, we may enter into swap agreements, including interest rate swaps. Swap agreements can be individually negotiated and structured to include exposure to a variety of different types of investments or market factors. Depending on their structure, swap agreements may increase or decrease exposure to long term or short term interest rates (in the United States or abroad), foreign currency values, mortgage securities, corporate borrowing rates, or other factors such as security prices, baskets of equity securities, or inflation rates. Swap agreements can take many different forms and are known by a variety of names. We are not precluded from any particular form of swap or option agreement if we determine it is consistent with our investment objectives and policies. Swap agreements tend to shift investment exposure from one type of investment to another. Depending on how they are used, swap agreements may increase or decrease the overall volatility of our portfolio. The most significant factor in the performance of swap agreements is the change in the specific interest rate, currency, individual equity values or other factors that determine the amounts of payments due to and from us. If a swap agreement calls for payments or collateral transfers by us, we must be prepared to make such payments and transfers when due. Additionally, if a counterparty’s creditworthiness declines, the value of swap agreements with the counterparty can be expected to decline, potentially resulting in losses by us. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and certain commodity exchanges have established limits referred to as speculative position limits or position limits on the maximum net long or net short position that any person or group of persons may hold or control in particular futures and options. Limits on trading in options contracts also have been established by the various options exchanges. It is possible that trading decisions may have to be modified and that positions held may have to be liquidated to avoid exceeding such limits. Such modification or liquidation, if required, could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, such as the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by any event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open derivative positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These potential payments will be contingent liabilities and therefore may not appear on our balance sheet. The economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Competition might prevent us from acquiring Agency RMBS at favorable yields, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire Agency RMBS at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring Agency RMBS, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase Agency RMBS, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. Additionally, we may also compete with the U.S. Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury to the extent that those entities purchase Agency RMBS pursuant to their respective Agency RMBS purchase programs. Additionally, many of our competitors are not subject to REIT tax compliance or required to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may not be able to acquire sufficient Agency RMBS at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our Agency RMBS or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are generally not insured. Also, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economies. They also could result in economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our Agency RMBS or the securities markets in general, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We are highly dependent on communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments. These systems are operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure continued operation. In the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including Agency RMBS trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. If we issue debt securities, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our Class A Common Stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets. Such additional restrictive covenants and operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to maintain relationships with AVM, L.P. and its affiliate, III Associates, or if we do not establish relationships with other repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative service providers, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. We have engaged AVM, L.P. and its affiliate, III Associates, to provide us with certain repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative services. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with AVM and III Associates or we are unable to establish successful relationships with other repurchase agreement trading, clearing and administrative service providers, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be materially adversely affected. LEGAL AND TAX RISKS If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and may face a substantial tax liability. We intend to operate in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, REIT qualification involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis) established under technical and complex provisions of the Code, as amended, or regulations under the Code, for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. The determination that we qualify as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. For instance, a lack of access to adequate financing may prevent us from maintaining a portfolio of sufficient size to satisfy the REIT qualification requirements. Such could be the case when market conditions become severely distressed and/or the Company’s financial condition deteriorates materially. Accordingly, it is not certain we will be able to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Even a technical or inadvertent violation of the REIT requirements could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might change the tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having a retroactive effect that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: · we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders, and could force us to liquidate assets at inopportune times, causing lower income or higher losses than would result if these assets were not liquidated; and · unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our REIT qualification, and our cash available for distribution to its stockholders therefore would be reduced for each of the years in which we do not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. We may also be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to our stockholders at unfavorable times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely with the goal of maximizing profits. In addition, the REIT provisions of the Code impose a 100% tax on income from "prohibited transactions." Prohibited transactions generally include sales of assets that constitute inventory or other property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than foreclosure property. This 100% tax could impact our ability to sell mortgage-related securities at otherwise opportune times if we believe such sales could result in our being treated as engaging in prohibited transactions. However, we would not be subject to this tax if we were to sell assets through a taxable REIT subsidiary. We will also be subject to a 100% tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements between us and our taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively, which could in turn leave us more exposed to the effects of adverse changes in interest rates. The REIT provisions of the Code may substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-related securities and related borrowings by generally requiring us to limit our income in each year from qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified REIT real estate assets, to less than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate gross income from non-qualified hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources, to less than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may in the future have to limit the use of hedges or implement hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur. If we fail to satisfy the 25% or 5% limitations, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect and we meet certain other technical requirements, we could lose our REIT qualification. Even if our failure was due to reasonable cause, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of income in excess of certain thresholds, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. Dividends paid by REITs are not qualified dividends eligible for reduced tax rates. In general, the current maximum federal income tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid to individual U.S. stockholders is 15%. Dividends paid by REITs, however, are generally not qualified dividends eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends, which are usually qualified dividends, could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our Class A Common Stock. To maintain our REIT qualification, we may be forced to borrow funds on unfavorable terms or sell our MBS portfolio securities at unfavorable prices to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes from, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our net taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our mortgage-related securities at unfavorable prices or find other sources of funds in order to meet the REIT distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax. These other sources could increase our costs or reduce equity and reduce amounts available to invest in mortgage-related securities. Reliance on legal opinions or statements by issuers of mortgage-related securities could result in a failure to comply with REIT gross income or asset tests. When purchasing mortgage-related securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether and to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the REIT gross income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and could result in significant corporate-level tax. Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect us and our stockholders. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Our business may be harmed by changes to the laws and regulations affecting us, including changes to securities laws and changes to the Code provisions applicable to the taxation of REITs. New legislation may be enacted into law, or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, any of which could adversely affect us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. We may recognize excess inclusion income that would increase the tax liability of our stockholders. If we recognize excess inclusion income and that is allocated to our stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, such income would be subject to federal income tax withholding without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. In addition, to the extent our stock is owned by tax-exempt "disqualified organizations," such as government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business taxable income, although Treasury regulations have not yet been drafted to clarify the law, we may incur a corporate level tax at the highest applicable corporate tax rate on the portion of our excess inclusion income that is allocable to such disqualified organizations. Excess inclusion income could result if we hold a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. Excess inclusion income also could be generated if we were to issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bore a relationship to the payments received on our mortgage-related securities securing those debt obligations (i.e., if we were to own an interest in a taxable mortgage pool). However, Treasury regulations have not been issued regarding the allocation of excess inclusion income to stockholders of a REIT that owns an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. We do not expect to acquire significant amounts of residual interests in REMICs, other than interests already owned by our taxable REIT subsidiary, which is treated as a separate taxable entity for these purposes. We intend to structure borrowing arrangements in a manner designed to avoid generating significant amounts of excess inclusion income. We do, however, expect to enter into various repurchase agreements that have differing maturity dates and afford the lender the right to sell any pledged mortgaged securities if we should default on our obligations. A portion of our distributions may be deemed a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The amount of our distributions to the holders of our Class A Common Stock in a given year may not correspond to REIT taxable income for that year. To the extent our distributions exceed our REIT taxable income, the distribution will be treated as a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital distribution will not be taxable to the extent of a stockholder's tax basis in our shares but will reduce a stockholder's basis in our shares of Class A Common Stock. Our reported GAAP financial results differ from the taxable income results that drive our dividend distributions. Our dividend distributions are driven by the dividend distribution requirements under the REIT tax laws and our profits as calculated for tax purposes pursuant to the Code. Our reported results for GAAP purposes may differ materially from both our cash flows and our REIT taxable income. As a result of the significant differences between GAAP and REIT taxable income accounting, stockholders and analysts must undertake a complex analysis to understand our tax results and dividend distribution requirements. This complexity may hinder the trading of our stock or may lead observers to misinterpret our results. Legislation related to corporate governance has increased our costs of compliance and our liability. Enacted and proposed laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and disclosure requirements applicable to public companies, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased the costs of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. These costs may increase in the future due to our continuing implementation of compliance programs mandated by these requirements. In addition, these new laws, rules and regulations create new legal bases for administrative enforcement, civil and criminal proceedings against us in case of non-compliance, thereby increasing our risks of liability and potential sanctions. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would harm our results of operations. We intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced and we would be unable to conduct our business. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on, and interests in, real estate. Under the current interpretation of the SEC staff, in order to qualify for this exemption, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in these qualifying real estate interests, with at least 25% of remaining assets invested in real estate-related securities. Mortgage-related securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not qualify for purposes of the 55% requirement. Therefore, our ownership of these mortgage-related securities is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. In satisfying the 55% requirement under the Investment Company Act, we treat as qualifying interests mortgage-related securities issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we hold all issued certificates. If the SEC or its staff adopts a contrary interpretation of such treatment, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our mortgage-related securities under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, in order to ensure that we at all times qualify for the exemption under the Investment Company Act, we may be precluded from acquiring mortgage-related securities whose yield is higher than the yield on mortgage-related securities that could be purchased in a manner consistent with the exemption. These factors may lower or eliminate our net income. Mortco may be obligated to repurchase certain mortgage loans it originated if applicable underwriting requirements were not satisfied. Such repurchases could adversely affect the financial condition of Mortco and further limit its ability to repay amounts owed to us. Prior to ceasing its operations in April 2007, Mortco originated residential mortgage loans. Those loans were typically sold to Fannie Mae, and the related mortgage servicing rights were typically sold to third-party servicing companies. Fannie Mae, servicing companies and certain investors have made repurchase claims to Mortco regarding certain residential mortgage loans that were originated by Mortco. These claims generally result from a default by a borrower under a loan followed by a rescission of mortgage insurance coverage due to an alleged underwriting deficiency. To date, Mortco has generally demonstrated compliance with underwriting requirements or otherwise resolved these demands without being required to repurchase loans or pay for losses incurred on the loans. However, if Mortco is required to repurchase loans or pay losses incurred by Fannie Mae, servicing companies, investors or other third parties on a significant number of loans, then the financial condition of Mortco and its already limited ability to repay debt that it owes to us will be adversely affected. There may be a limited market for our Class A Common Stock in the future. Until November 5, 2007, our Class A Common Stock was traded on the NYSE Euronext. Currently our Class A Common Stock is traded on the OTC bulletin board under the symbol “BMNM.OB”. We may apply to list our Class A Common Stock on another national securities market in the future, however, no assurance can be given that our Class A Common Stock will be approved for listing on such national securities market. Until such time that our Class A Common Stock is approved for listing on another national securities market, the ability to buy and sell our Class A Common Stock may be limited, and significant sales may depress or result in a decline in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Additionally, until such time that our Class A Common Stock is approved for listing on another national securities market, our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities may be limited. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 