Risk Factors Risks related to our business The highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor capital equipment industry and general economic slowdowns could harm our operating results. Our business and operating results depend in significant part upon capital expenditures by manufacturers of semiconductors, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical, with recurring periods of over-supply of semiconductor products that have had a severe negative effect on the demand for capital equipment used to manufacture semiconductors. We have experienced and anticipate that we will continue to experience significant fluctuations in customer orders for our products. Our sales were $147.5 million in 2005, $184.2 million in 2004 and $77.5 million in 2003. Beginning in the third quarter of 2004, we started to experience a weakening in new orders and an increase in customer requests for cancellations and postponements of existing orders that continued through the third quarter of 2005. Historically, semiconductor industry slowdowns have had, and future slowdowns may have, a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, uncertainty regarding the growth rate of economies throughout the world has caused companies to reduce capital investment and may cause further reduction of such investments. These reductions have been particularly severe in the semiconductor capital equipment industry. A potential rebound in the worldwide economy in the near future will not necessarily mean that our business will experience similar effects. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and any impairment of our relationships with these customers would adversely affect our business. A relatively small number of OEM customers has historically accounted for a significant portion of our sales, and we expect this trend to continue. Applied Materials, Inc., Lam Research Corporation and Novellus Systems, Inc. as a group accounted for 89% of our sales in 2005, 93% of our sales in 2004 and 92% of our sales in 2003. Because of the small number of OEMs in our industry, most of whom are already our customers, it would be difficult to replace lost revenue resulting from the loss of, or the reduction, cancellation or delay in purchase orders by, any one of these customers. Consolidation among our customers or a decision by any one or more of our customers to outsource all or a substantial portion of their manufacturing and assembly work to a single equipment manufacturer may further concentrate our business in a limited number of customers and expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. In addition, by virtue of our customers’ size and the significant portion of our revenue that we derive from them, they are able to exert significant influence and pricing pressure in the negotiation of our commercial agreements and the conduct of our business with them. We may also be asked to accommodate customer requests that extend beyond the express terms of our agreements in order to maintain our relationships with our customers. If we are unable to retain and expand our business with these customers on favorable terms, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We have had to qualify, and are required to maintain our status, as a supplier for each of our customers. This is a lengthy process that involves the inspection and approval by a customer of our engineering, documentation, manufacturing and quality control procedures before that customer will place volume orders. Our ability to lessen the adverse effect of any loss of, or reduction in sales to, an existing customer through the rapid addition of one or 6 Table of Contents more new customers is minimal because of these qualification requirements. Consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected by the loss of, or any reduction in orders by, any of our significant customers. We have recently established operations in China, which exposes us to new risks associated with operating in a foreign country. We are exposed to political, economic, legal and other risks associated with operating in China, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • political, civil and economic instability; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • disruptions to our and our customers’ operations due to the outbreak of communicable diseases, such as SARS and avian flu; • disruptions in operations due to the weakness of China’s domestic infrastructure, including transportation and energy; • difficulties in developing relationships with local suppliers; • difficulties in attracting new international customers; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing a distant international subsidiary and branch operations; • the burden of complying with foreign and international laws and treaties; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, while over the past several years the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization, the Chinese government may not continue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the imposition of confiscatory taxation policies, new restrictions on currency conversion or limitations on sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our operations in China, which could result in a total loss of our investment in that country and materially and adversely affect our future operating results. Our quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause volatility in our common stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future for a variety of reasons which may include: • demand for and market acceptance of our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry or otherwise, often resulting in reduced sales during industry downturns and increased sales during periods of industry recovery; • changes in the timing and size of orders by our customers; • cancellations and postponements of previously placed orders; • pricing pressure from either our competitors or our customers, resulting in the reduction of our product prices; • disruptions or delays in the manufacturing of our products or in the supply of components or raw materials that are incorporated into or used to manufacture our products, thereby causing us to delay the shipment of products; 7 Table of Contents • decreased margins for several or more quarters following the introduction of new products, especially as we introduce new subsystems; • delays in ramp-up in production, low yields or other problems experienced at our new manufacturing facility in China; • changes in design-to-delivery cycle times; • inability to reduce our costs quickly in step with reductions in our prices or in response to decreased demand for our products; • changes in our mix of products sold; • write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory; • one-time expenses or charges associated with failed acquisition negotiations or completed acquisitions; • announcements by our competitors of new products, services or technological innovations, which may, among other things, render our products less competitive; and • geographic mix of worldwide earnings. As a result of the foregoing, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Changes in the timing or terms of a small number of transactions could disproportionately affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Moreover, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, we would expect to experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim we are infringing their intellectual property, which could subject us to litigation or licensing expenses, and we may be prevented from selling our products if any such claims prove successful. We have received a claim of infringement from Celerity, Inc. that is currently pending and we may receive notices of other such claims in the future. In addition, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may be applicable to our products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The complexity of the technology involved in our products and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development, manufacture and sale of certain of our products if any such claims prove successful. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Because we are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, any significant reductions, cancellations or delays in customer orders could cause our revenue to decline and our operating results to suffer. Our revenue is difficult to forecast because we generally do not have a material backlog of unfilled orders and because of the short time frame within which we are often required to design, produce and deliver products to our customers. Most of our revenue in any quarter depends on customer orders for our products that we receive and fulfill in the same quarter. We do not have long-term purchase orders or contracts that contain minimum purchase commitments from our customers. Instead, we receive non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders from our customers. Occasionally, we order and build component inventory in advance of the receipt of actual customer orders. Customers may cancel order forecasts, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, reductions, cancellations or delays in customer order forecasts occur without penalty to, or compensation from, the customer. Reductions, cancellations or delays in forecasted orders could cause us to hold inventory longer than anticipated, which could reduce our gross profit, restrict our ability to fund our operations and cause us to incur unanticipated reductions or delays in revenue. If we 8 Table of Contents do not obtain orders as we anticipate, we could have excess component inventory for a specific product that we would not be able to sell to another customer, likely resulting in inventory write-offs, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because many of our costs are fixed in the short term, we could experience deterioration in our gross profit when our production volumes decline. The manufacturing of our products is highly complex, and if we are not able to manage our manufacturing and procurement process effectively, our business and operating results will suffer. The manufacturing of our products is a highly complex process that involves the integration of multiple components and requires effective management of our supply chain while meeting our customers’ design-to-delivery cycle time requirements. Through the course of the manufacturing process, our customers may modify design and system configurations in response to changes in their own customers’ requirements. In order to rapidly respond to these modifications and deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, we must effectively manage our manufacturing and procurement process. If we fail to manage this process effectively, we risk losing customers and damaging our reputation. In addition, if we acquire inventory in excess of demand or that does not meet customer specifications, we would incur excess or obsolete inventory charges. These risks are even greater as we expand our business beyond gas delivery systems into new subsystems. As a result, this could limit our growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. OEMs may not continue to outsource gas delivery systems and other subsystems, which would adversely impact our operating results. The success of our business depends on OEMs continuing to outsource the manufacturing of gas delivery systems and other subsystems for their semiconductor capital equipment. Most of the largest OEMs have already outsourced production of a significant portion of their gas delivery systems and other subsystems. If OEMs do not continue to outsource gas delivery systems and other subsystems for their capital equipment, our revenue would be significantly reduced, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we are unable to obtain additional business from OEMs, even if they continue to outsource their production of gas delivery systems and other subsystems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. If our new products are not accepted by OEMs or if we are unable to maintain historical margins on our new products, our operating results would be adversely impacted. We design, develop and market gas delivery systems and other subsystems to OEMs. Sales of these new products are expected to make up an increasing part of our total revenue. The introduction of new products is inherently risky because it is difficult to foresee the adoption of new standards, to coordinate our technical personnel and strategic relationships and to win acceptance of new products by OEMs. We may not be able to recoup design and development expenditures if our new products are not accepted by OEMs. Gross margins on newly introduced products typically carry lower gross margins for several or more quarters following their introduction. If any of our new subsystems is not successful, or if we are unable to obtain gross margins on new products that are similar to the gross margins we have historically achieved, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our future growth successfully. Our ability to execute our business plan successfully in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We have increased, and plan to continue to increase, the scope of our operations. Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, however, future growth is difficult to predict. Our expansion efforts could be expensive and may strain our managerial and other resources. To manage future growth effectively, we must maintain and enhance our financial and operating systems and controls and manage expanded operations. Although we occasionally experience reductions in force, over time the number of people we employ has generally grown and we expect this number to continue to grow when our operations expand. The addition and training of new employees may lead to short-term quality control problems and place increased demands on our 9 Table of Contents management and experienced personnel. If we do not manage growth properly, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may experience difficulties and incur significant costs as a result of evaluating or completing acquisitions of companies, assets, businesses or technologies, and the anticipated benefits of any completed or contemplated acquisitions may never be realized. We frequently evaluate acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, assets, businesses and technologies. Even if an acquisition or other investment is not completed, we may incur significant costs in evaluating such acquisition or investment, which has in the past had, and could in the future have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. Any future acquisitions would be accompanied by risks such as: • difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies or businesses; • difficulties in integrating information systems of acquired companies or businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology into our products; • additional expense associated with amortization or depreciation of acquired assets; • maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new personnel; • dilution to our stockholders in the event we issue stock as consideration to finance an acquisition; and • increased leverage if we incur debt to finance an acquisition. We may not be successful in integrating any business, products, technologies or personnel that we acquire, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is largely dependent on the know-how of our employees, and we generally do not have a protected intellectual property position. Our business is largely dependent upon our design, engineering, manufacturing and testing know-how. We rely on a combination of trade secrets and contractual confidentiality provisions and, to a much lesser extent, patents, copyrights and trademarks, to protect our proprietary rights. Accordingly, our intellectual property position is more vulnerable than it would be if it were protected by patents. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our proprietary rights, and, in the event we do not detect infringement of our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position in the market if any such infringement occurs. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies and know-how. If we do not keep pace with developments in the semiconductor industry and with technological innovation generally, our products may not be competitive. Rapid technological innovation in semiconductor manufacturing requires the semiconductor capital equipment industry to anticipate and respond quickly to evolving customer requirements and could render our current product offerings and technology obsolete. Technological innovations are inherently complex. We must devote resources to technology development in order to keep pace with the rapidly evolving technologies used in semiconductor manufacturing. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to design, engineer and manufacture products that meet the changing needs of our customers. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design, engineering and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. If we are unable to integrate new technical specifications into competitive product 10 Table of Contents designs, develop the technical capabilities necessary to manufacture new products or make necessary modifications or enhancements to existing products, our business prospects could be harmed. The timely development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process which requires that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in the semiconductor industry, including new standards for our products; • accurately identify and design new products to meet market needs; • collaborate with OEMs to design and develop products on a timely and cost-effective basis; • ramp up production of new products, especially new subsystems, in a timely manner and with acceptable yields; • successfully manage development production cycles; and • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others. The industry in which we participate is highly competitive and rapidly evolving, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our operating results would be harmed. Our competitors are primarily companies that design and manufacture gas delivery systems for semiconductor capital equipment. Although we have not faced competition in the past from the largest subsystem and component manufacturers in the semiconductor capital equipment industry, these suppliers could compete with us in the future. Increased competition has in the past resulted, and could in the future result, in price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our operating results. We are subject to pricing pressure as we attempt to increase market share with our existing customers. Competitors may introduce new products for the markets currently served by our products. These products may have better performance, lower prices and achieve broader market acceptance than our products. Further, OEMs typically own the design rights to their products and may provide these designs to other subsystem manufacturers. If our competitors obtain proprietary rights to these designs such that we are unable to obtain the designs necessary to manufacture products for our OEM customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products, and reduce prices to increase market share. Moreover, there may be merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors that may provide our competitors and potential competitors an advantage over us by enabling them to expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs. Further, if one of our customers develops or acquires the internal capability to develop and produce gas delivery systems or other subsystems that we produce, the loss of that customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The introduction of new technologies and new market entrants may also increase competitive pressures. We must achieve design wins to retain our existing customers and to obtain new customers. New semiconductor capital equipment typically has a lifespan of several years, and OEMs frequently specify which systems, subsystems, components and instruments are to be used in their equipment. Once a specific system, subsystem, component or instrument is incorporated into a piece of semiconductor capital equipment, it will likely continue to be incorporated into that piece of equipment for at least several months before the OEM switches to the product of another supplier. Accordingly, it is important that our products are designed into the new semiconductor capital equipment of OEMs, which we refer to as a design win, in order to retain our competitive position with existing customers and to obtain new customers. 11 Table of Contents We incur technology development and sales expenses with no assurance that our products will ultimately be designed into an OEM’s semiconductor capital equipment. Further, developing new customer relationships, as well as increasing our market share at existing customers, requires a substantial investment of our sales, engineering and management resources without any assurance from prospective customers that they will place significant orders. We believe that OEMs often select their suppliers and place orders based on long-term relationships. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from OEMs that are not currently our customers. Our operating results and potential growth could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve design wins with leading OEMs. We may not be able to respond quickly enough to increases in demand for our products. Demand shifts in the semiconductor industry are rapid and difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond quickly enough to an increase in demand. Our ability to increase sales of our products depends, in part, upon our ability to: • mobilize our supply chain in order to maintain component and raw material supply; • optimize the use of our design, engineering and manufacturing capacity in a timely manner; • deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion; • expand, if necessary, our manufacturing capacity; and • maintain our product quality as we increase production. If we are unable to respond to rapid increases in demand for our products on a timely basis or to manage any corresponding expansion of our manufacturing capacity effectively, our customers could increase their purchases from our competitors, which would adversely affect our business. Our dependence on our suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on both single-source and sole-source suppliers, some of whom are relatively small, for many of the components we use in our products. In addition, our customers often specify components of particular suppliers that we must incorporate into our products. Our suppliers are under no obligation to provide us with components. As a result, the loss of or failure to perform by any of these providers could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, the manufacturing of certain components and subsystems is an extremely complex process. Therefore, if a supplier were unable to provide the volume of components we require on a timely basis and at acceptable prices, we would have to identify and qualify replacements from alternative sources of supply. The process of qualifying new suppliers for these complex components is lengthy and could delay our production, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also experience difficulty in obtaining sufficient supplies of components and raw materials in times of significant growth in our business. For example, we have in the past experienced shortages in supplies of various components, such as mass flow controllers, valves and regulators, and certain prefabricated parts, such as sheet metal enclosures, used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, one of our competitors manufactures mass flow controllers that may be specified by one or more of our customers. If we are unable to obtain these particular mass flow controllers from our competitor or convince a customer to select alternative mass flow controllers, we may be unable to meet that customer’s requirements, which could result in a loss of market share. Defects in our products could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause the unintended release of hazardous materials and result in potentially costly litigation. A number of factors, including design flaws, material and component failures, contamination in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and unknown sensitivities to process conditions, such as temperature and humidity, as well as equipment failures, may cause our products to contain undetected errors or defects. Problems with our products may: • cause delays in product introductions and shipments; 12 Table of Contents • result in increased costs and diversion of development resources; • cause us to incur increased charges due to unusable inventory; • require design modifications; • decrease market acceptance of, or customer satisfaction with, our products, which could result in decreased sales and product returns; or • result in lower yields for semiconductor manufacturers. If any of our products contain defects or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged and customers might be reluctant to buy our products. We may also face a higher rate of product defects as we increase our production levels. Product defects could result in the loss of existing customers, or impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, we may not find defects or failures in our products until after they are installed in a semiconductor manufacturer’s fabrication facility. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. Our current or potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products. Hazardous materials flow through and are controlled by our products and an unintended release of these materials could result in serious injury or death. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages. The technology labor market is very competitive, and our business will suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key executive officers, as well as our research, engineering, sales, manufacturing and administrative personnel, most of whom are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the technology industry is intense, and we operate in geographic locations in which labor markets are particularly competitive. Our business is particularly dependent on expertise which only a very limited number of engineers possess. The loss of any of our key employees and officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Vice President of Engineering, Vice President of Sales and Vice President of Technology, or the failure to attract and retain new qualified employees, would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to fund our future capital requirements from our operations, and financing from other sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We made capital expenditures of $1.1 million in 2005, most of which was for facility leasehold improvements and equipment in connection with the establishment of our Shanghai facility, and we made capital expenditures of $3.3 million in 2004 and $0.2 million in 2003. The amount of our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the cost required to ensure access to adequate manufacturing capacity; • the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts; • the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products; • changing manufacturing capabilities to meet new customer requirements; and • market acceptance of our products. Although we currently have a credit facility, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing if our current cash and cash flow from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities. Our credit facility matures on June 30, 2006 and we may not be able renew it on favorable terms. Future equity financings could be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financings could involve covenants that restrict our business operations. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our international sales are denominated primarily, though not entirely, in U.S. dollars. Many of the costs and expenses associated with our Shanghai facility are paid in Chinese Renminbi, and we expect our exposure to the Renminbi to increase as we ramp up production in that facility. In addition, purchases of some of our components are denominated in Japanese Yen. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies in which our revenue or costs are denominated and the U.S. dollar may affect our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins. While fluctuations in the value of our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we do not currently hedge our exchange exposure, and exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the future. If environmental contamination were to occur in one of our manufacturing facilities, we could be subject to substantial liabilities. We use substances regulated under various foreign, domestic, federal, state and local environmental laws in our manufacturing facilities. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental laws could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines or the suspension or termination of the production of our products. In addition, we may not be aware of all environmental laws or regulations that could subject us to liability. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss due to natural disasters, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by natural disasters, including fires and earthquakes. We have facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as our manufacturing and headquarters facilities in Menlo Park, California. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. In addition, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, extended power outages at our Menlo Park, California facilities. We do not carry insurance policies that cover potential losses caused by earthquakes or other natural disasters or power loss. We may not be able to continue to secure adequate facilities to house our operations, and any move to a new facility could be disruptive to our operations. On January 19, 2006, we extended the lease for our Menlo Park, California, headquarters and manufacturing facility through December 31, 2007. If we are unable to renew our lease on favorable terms after this date we will be forced to relocate all manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing and administrative functions currently housed in Menlo Park to new facilities. This move could disrupt our operations and we would incur additional costs associated with relocation to new facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We must maintain effective controls, and our auditors will report on them. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We anticipate being classified as an accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2006. As a result, our auditors will be required to audit and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, our management’s attention might be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any failure by us to maintain adequate controls or to adequately implement new controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we 14 Table of Contents might need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we might not be able to do so in a timely fashion. We will also experience additional costs, especially in 2006, as we complete documentation of our internal control procedures in anticipation of our Section 404 compliance. Risks related to our ownership by Francisco Partners We will continue to be controlled by FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. as long as FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. owns a significant percentage of our common stock, and therefore our other stockholders will be unable to affect the outcome of stockholder voting during such time. FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C., an entity controlled by Francisco Partners, L.P., owns approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock. Pursuant to a stockholders’ agreement, FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. has the right to nominate for election a majority of the members of our board of directors for so long as it holds at least 25% of our outstanding common stock. The stockholders’ agreement also provides that our board of directors may not take certain significant actions without the approval of FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. as long as FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. owns at least 25% of our outstanding common stock. These actions include: • mergers, acquisitions or certain sales of assets; • any liquidation, dissolution or bankruptcy; • issuances of securities; • determination of compensation and benefits for our chief executive officer and chief financial officer; • appointment or dismissal of any of the chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer, chief financial officer or any other executive officer in any similar capacity; • amendments to the stockholders’ agreement or exercise or waiver of rights under the stockholders’ agreement; • amendments to our charter or bylaws; • any increase or decrease in the number of directors that comprise our board of directors; • the declaration of dividends or other distributions; • any incurrence or refinancing of indebtedness in excess of $10 million; • approval of our business plan, budget and strategy; and • modification of our long-term business strategy. Such power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, business combination or other transaction that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. also is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party or a participant in our industry. FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, our own and those of our other stockholders. Francisco Partners, L.P., which controls FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C., has invested in, or acquired other businesses that are involved in, the semiconductor industry and may invest in or acquire others in the future. Conflicts of interest between FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. and us or our other stockholders may arise. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation does not contain any provisions designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to both FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. and us will be reserved for, or made available to, us. If an actual or potential conflict of interest develops involving one of our directors, our corporate 15 Table of Contents governance guidelines provide that the director must report the matter immediately to our board of directors and audit committee for evaluation and appropriate resolution. Further, such director must recuse himself or herself from participation in the related discussion and abstain from voting on the matter. Nonetheless, conflicts of interest may not be resolved in a manner favorable to us or our other stockholders. In addition, FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. and its director designees could delay or prevent an acquisition, merger or other transaction even if the transaction would benefit our other stockholders. In addition, FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C.’s significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Risks related to the securities markets and ownership of our common stock Future sales of our common stock by our controlling stockholder could depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C., or the perception that these sales might occur, may depress prevailing market prices of our common stock. The shares owned by FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. are governed by an agreement with us that provides it demand and piggyback registration rights. The market for our stock is subject to significant fluctuation. The size of our public market capitalization is relatively small, and the volume of our shares that are traded is low. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • our ability to successfully introduce new products and manage new product transitions; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • announcements relating to any of our key customers, significant suppliers or the semiconductor manufacturing and capital equipment industry generally; • general market conditions; • the effects of war and terrorist attacks; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our charter documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. In addition to the provisions of our stockholders’ agreement with FP-Ultra Clean, L.L.C. described above, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, our president or our secretary; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; and • the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 