D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected adversely by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks and you might lose all or part of your investment in our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses, may incur future losses and may not achieve significant profitability. Since commencing our operations in 1994 and until 2004, we have incurred losses in each fiscal year. We reported net losses of approximately $6.5 million in 2002, $1.8 million in 2003 and $1.1 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $48.9 million. Our losses have resulted primarily from research and development expenses, selling and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses. To succeed in our business, we must continue to invest in the sales and marketing of our existing Power-over-Ethernet products and research and development of new products that are not related to Power-over-Ethernet technology but are related to our technological abilities in power management and control. Therefore, we expect to continue to incur significant sales and marketing expenses, as well as research and development expenses. In addition, we also have recorded stock-based compensation expense in connection with options we granted to our employees. For these reasons, we may incur future losses and may not achieve significant profitability. To date a small number of customers account for a major part of our sales, and the loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant decrease or delay in sales to any of these customers, could reduce our sales significantly. To date, we have derived a major part of our sales from a small number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our four largest customers, Avaya, Anixter, Westcon Group and 3Com, accounted for 37% of our sales. Our principal customers have changed, and we expect that they will continue to change, from year to year. To date, we have not experienced the loss of a principal customer. However, given our dependence on a small number of customers, the loss of one or more of our principal customers or the cancellation or deferral of even a small number of purchases of our products by one of these customers could cause our sales to decline materially if we are unable to increase our sales to alternative customers. A number of factors could cause customers to cancel or defer orders, including delays in manufacturing their own products into which our products are incorporated and interruptions to their operations due to fire, natural disasters or other events or a downturn in their industries. We also have not entered into purchase agreements with some of our largest customers, including Avaya, and instead sell our products to them solely on the basis of purchase orders. In addition, any purchase agreements that we do have with our customers, including those with Anixter, Westcon Group, Nortel and Symbol, do not contain minimum purchase commitments. As a result, these customers could cease purchasing our products with little or no notice to us or fail to pay all or part of an invoice, in each case often without a significant penalty. Our customers do not rely entirely or substantially on a single supplier and, as a result, they could reduce their purchases of our products and increase their purchases of competing products. If any of these customers significantly reduces or delays purchases from us, or if we are required to sell products to them at reduced prices, our sales could be materially adversely affected. 3 We expend significant resources on persuading customers to integrate our products into their product offerings and, even if a customer decides to integrate our products, it may not result in any orders for our products or there may be significant delays before any sales can be generated from this customer. We market and sell our products to a limited number of large communications equipment manufacturers who incorporate them into, or bundle them with, their products. We invest many months of significant effort and expenditure from the time of our initial contact with a potential customer to the date on which the customer agrees to incorporate or embed our products into its systems. This is known as a “design win.” In addition, we may expend significant resources in persuading customers to integrate our products into their systems without success. Without achieving design wins, we will be unable to sell our products. If one of our competitors achieves a design win and a manufacturer embeds their integrated products into its products, it will be difficult for us to displace that competitor because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. If a large switch manufacturer decides to integrate the products of one of our competitors, it could harm our future prospects. Even if a customer agrees to integrate our products into its systems, that customer itself must successfully market and sell its products to end-users before we can generate any sales. As a result, we may incur significant expenses without achieving a design win or generating any sales. Our integrated products generate lower revenues per port than our midspan products; however while sales of our integrated products are increasing, we anticipate that sales of our midspan products will decline. If sales of integrated products do not continue to increase at an accelerated pace, this could cause a decrease in our revenue and could harm our ability to generate revenues. The average selling price per port for our midspan products is higher than that of our integrated products and therefore sales of our integrated products generate lower revenues per port for us than our midspan products. We believe that sales of our higher volume, lower revenue integrated products will increase at a fast pace while sales of our higher revenue, lower volume midspan products will decline. If sales of our integrated products do not continue to increase at an accelerated pace, this could cause a decrease in our revenues and could harm our ability to generate future revenues. Our products will be subject to a general pattern of price decline, which could harm our business. The average selling prices for our midspan and integrated products have declined and may continue to decline significantly, as these products have become standardized. Furthermore, we expect our competitors to invest in new manufacturing capacity and to achieve significant manufacturing yield improvements in the future. These developments could increase dramatically the worldwide supply of competitive products and result in further downward pressure on prices. If we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs at a rate equal to or faster than the rate at which selling prices continue to decline or if we are unable to introduce new products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. Even if we are able to decrease per unit manufacturing costs, because of competitive pressure we will be forced to reduce our selling prices and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. Because our historical results are based on the sales of our telecommunications products, our historical financial data accumulated prior to 2002, is of limited value in evaluating our future prospects as we continue to increase our efforts to develop, market and sell our Power-over-Ethernet products. Our business has evolved from a business focused on selling components for telecommunications applications to a business focused on selling Power-over-Ethernet products for data networking applications. In 2000, we derived substantially all of our sales from telecommunications products. During 2001, we began to derive significant sales from our Power-over-Ethernet products, but we still derived the majority of our sales from our telecommunications products. Beginning in 2002, we derived a majority of our sales from our Power-over-Ethernet products. Going forward, we expect our Power-over-Ethernet products to continue to provide substantially all of our future sales. As a result, our historical financial data accumulated prior to 2002 is of limited value in evaluating our future prospects. 4 The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. We face significant competition in the markets in which we participate. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our current principal competitors in the Power-over-Ethernet midspan product market include Red Hawk, Inc., Sprint, Phihong, Netstar, D-Link Corporation and Systems Engineering International Inc. In the integrated circuit market, our main competitors include Texas Instruments, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Linear Technology Corp., Micrel Semiconductor, Inc., National Semiconductor, Inc. and SuperTex, Inc. We believe that others, such as Delta Networks, Accton Technology Corporation, Panduit Corp. and MiLAN Technology, recently have introduced or may soon introduce competitive midspan products. We also believe that Broadcom will enter this market and introduce integrated products. Our competitors’ integrated products and midspan products may have better performance, lower prices and broader acceptance than our products. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater name recognition, larger customer bases, more established customer relationships and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than do we. We expect to compete with some of the companies listed above to sell products to Cisco Systems, Inc. (“Cisco”), which is the leader in switch shipments globally, and is now deploying switches that have Power-over-Ethernet capabilities and are compliant with the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers 802.3af industry standard. In addition, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products, benefit from greater economies of scale and reduce prices to increase market share. If we do not continue to introduce new products or address new applications for Power-over-Ethernet technology in a timely manner, our products will become obsolete, will not achieve broad market acceptance and our sales will suffer. The communications equipment industry into which our products are sold is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and improvements, evolving industry standards and changes in customer and end-user requirements. Power-over-Ethernet is a new technology and we will need to adapt our existing Power-over-Ethernet products in order to pursue new applications for them, such as personal computers, personal digital assistants, set-top cable boxes, and industrial and home automation devices. In addition, these and other future applications for Power-over-Ethernet may require higher power than currently is delivered over the Ethernet. Delays in completing the development and introduction of products that address new applications and markets could cause our sales to decline and our operating loss to increase. Successful product design, development and introduction on a timely basis require that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; • maintain effective sales and marketing strategies; • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and • adjust to changing market conditions quickly and cost-effectively. We need the technical expertise to implement the changes necessary to keep our technologies current, but we also must rely heavily on the judgment of our management to anticipate future market trends. If we are unable to predict industry changes in a timely manner, or if we are unable to modify our products on a timely basis to address new applications or enter into new markets, we might lose customers or market share. Development of new products generally requires a substantial investment before we can determine whether our products will be commercially viable and whether our customers will integrate our products into their own new products. The future success of our new products depends on broad acceptance by our customers. If we fail to adequately predict our customers’ needs and technological advances, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue, or we may fail to invest in technology necessary to meet our customers’ demands. 5 Because we derive a majority of our revenues from sales of a single product and product line, any decline in demand for our products could severely harm our ability to generate revenues. We derive a majority of our revenues from a single product and product line. In addition, our products are concentrated within the market for Power-over-Ethernet. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for our products, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, consumer preferences, technological change or other factors. If our revenues derived from our Power-over-Ethernet products were to decline significantly, we could incur substantial losses. We will not be able to achieve business growth if we are not able to develop and introduce new products not based solely on Power-over-Ethernet. Because of our dependency on a single product and product line, and the continued downward pressure on our selling prices, in order to achieve business growth, we will need to be able to develop and introduce to the market new products that may not be solely related to Power-over-Ethernet technology. There is no guarantee that we will be able to identify a market need for any such products, and even if we do, we may not be able to develop such products or to successfully introduce such products to the market on a timely basis. Our reliance on single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budgets. We rely on single source suppliers for the microcontrollers and power supplies that we incorporate into our products. Although alternative suppliers exist, we estimate that it would take us at least three months to find alternative suppliers for our microcontrollers and power supplies and to modify our products to incorporate alternate microcontrollers and power supplies. We obtain our first generation Power-over-Ethernet integrated circuit, called the Ido chip, from Austria Mikro Systeme International AG. We obtain our second generation Power-over-Ethernet integrated circuit, called the Ron chip and our third generation Power-over-Ethernet integrated circuits, called Paige and Noam, from Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (formerly, the semiconductor division of Motorola Inc.). We estimate it would take us at least twelve months to find a new supplier, qualify their process and modify our products to incorporate a new integrated circuit in place of the Ido chip and at least fourteen months to find a new supplier, qualify their process and modify our products to integrate new integrated circuits in place of the Ron, Paige and Noam chips. In addition, we believe that there are only approximately five manufacturers with the capability to supply the Ron, Paige and Noam chips. Our agreement for the development of the Ron chip terminates on December 31, 2007, unless we reach an agreement with Freescale to extend the term of the agreement before March 30, 2008, and our agreement for the development of the Paige chip terminates on December 31, 2008, unless we reach an agreement with Freescale to extend the term of the agreement before March 30, 2009. We do not have a written agreement relating to the Noam chip. To date, we have not experienced the loss of a single source supplier or any significant supply delay or interruption to our production. However, if we are unable to obtain components or integrated circuits from our current suppliers, we may not have sufficient inventory to continue manufacturing our products during the time required to find a new supplier, qualify their process and modify our products. In addition, we may not be able to integrate alternative components or integrated circuits, which may delay shipments, increase expenses and limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Any inability to deliver products or any late deliveries could hurt our reputation severely and decrease our sales. In addition, we may experience difficulties in the future in receiving shipments of less specialized components, such as resistors and capacitors, from one or more of our suppliers, especially during periods of high demand for our products. If we cannot obtain an adequate supply of the components and materials we require, or do not receive them in a timely manner, we and our customers might be required to identify and qualify new suppliers. The lead-time required to identify and qualify new suppliers could affect our ability to ship our products in a timely manner, cause our operating results to suffer and cause us to miss market opportunities. 6 To date, a portion of our sales was derived from OEM customers who purchased our midspan products. The OEM business for our midspan products has begun to decline and we anticipate a further significant drop in this business; therefore, we will need to quickly develop other channels of sale of these products or risk a significant decline in revenue To date, we have derived a portion of our sales revenue from sale of midspan products to OEM customers. The OEM business for our midspan products has begun to decline and we anticipate, in the very near future, a further significant decline in this business. As a result, we will need to quickly develop other sales channels for these products. If we fail to develop these channels in the near future we may suffer significant decline in sales revenue which will adversely affect our results from operations. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2005, we owned six U.S. patents relating to our Power-over-Ethernet technology and an additional three U.S. patents relating to our ring signal generators. We believe that three of our issued U.S. patents relating to our Power-over-Ethernet technology may cover technology described in the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers 802.3af industry standard. Because of our involvement in the standard-setting process, we are required to license certain of our core technology, including the technology covered by these three patents, on a reasonable and non-discriminatory basis to a current or future competitors, to the extent required to carry out the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers 802.3af industry standard. In addition, because third parties have or may acquire patents covering technology that also is required to implement the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers 802.3af industry standard or under which we require rights to manufacture and sell our own products, we may need to cross-license our technology to those parties in order to obtain necessary rights. We are aware of at least five other companies with products similar to ours that deliver power over Ethernet cables and we also are aware of several patents that have been issued with respect to Power-over-Ethernet technology. It also is possible that other entities may have been issued patents or filed patent applications with respect to Power-over-Ethernet technology. As a result, we may not be able to prevent future competitors from entering the Power-over-Ethernet market on the basis of our issued patents. We have more than forty patent applications pending in the United States and additional patent applications pending in nine other countries, in the Patent Cooperation Treaty route and before the European Union covering our Power-over-Ethernet technology. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications or, that if patents are issued, the patents will be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. In the event that these patent applications are not issued, they will become publicly available and proprietary information disclosed in the application will become available to others. In addition, we do not know whether any issued patents will be upheld as valid, proven enforceable against alleged infringers or that they will prevent the development of competitive patents. Furthermore, our competitors may develop technology or design around any patents issued to us or our other intellectual property rights and could then offer services and develop, manufacture and sell products that compete directly with our services and products, which could decrease our sales and diminish our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of inventions agreements, as appropriate, with our employees, consultants and customers, to protect and otherwise seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information and trade secrets. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third party infringement or misappropriation. Counterparties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our competitors may learn of our trade secrets through other methods. Furthermore, our products may be sold in countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than U.S. or Israeli laws or no protection at all. If any third parties infringe our proprietary rights, this infringement could materially adversely affect our competitive position. 7 We are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may from time to time claim that our current or future products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. For example, in October 2001, a privately held company named ChriMar Systems, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the Federal District Court in the Eastern District of Michigan against us alleging that our products infringed their patent. The same company filed a lawsuit against Cisco alleging that Cisco products also infringed their patent. ChriMar Systems has not specified the amount of the monetary damages which it is seeking to obtain; however, ChriMar Systems states claims for punitive damages. The two lawsuits were determined by the court to be related and were brought before the same judge. The case against us has been stayed pending the resolution of the case against Cisco. In the case against Cisco, a Special Master appointed by the court held that the plaintiff’s patent was not valid. The court upheld the Special Master’s decision. However, Cisco has since entered into a settlement agreement with respect to this litigation and we anticipate that our case will be reopened. If in this particular litigation or any other future lawsuit our technology is deemed to infringe any patent, or if we discover that we infringed third party patent claims, we could be required to license rights from third parties. In another instance, a third party notified us and several of our customers of a patent, which the third party alleges relates to technologies underlying the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers 802.3af industry standard. On March 31, 2004, we filed a claim for declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity with respect to this patent in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In November 2005, we reached a settlement in this litigation whereby we dismissed the suit with prejudice in exchange for certain relief from liability for us and our customers (see “Item 8. Financial Information - Legal Proceedings”). It is possible that other relevant patent holder may file claims against certain of our customers which may lead these customers to seek indemnification from us. Since our policy, as stated in our Standard Terms and Conditions of Sale, is not to provide any indemnification in such cases, this could result in litigation with our customers which would cause us to incur expenses and may cause our sales to decline. Although it is common in our industry to cross-license intellectual property or collaborate with other companies in the industry, we may not be able to reach agreement with third parties regarding cross-licensing on terms that are favorable to us or at all. In the event we cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from using some technology and expend significant resources in an attempt to develop non-infringing technology which may not be successful. This could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products, increase the costs of selling some of our products, or damage our reputation. In addition, any future intellectual property litigation, regardless of its outcome, may be expensive, divert the efforts of our personnel, disrupt or damage relationships with our customers and could result in our owing third parties significant sums. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to a small number of manufacturing subcontractors with limited manufacturing capacity, and if we unexpectedly receive large orders, we may not be able to deliver our products to customers on time. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to a small number of subcontractors. These functions are performed for us in Israel by A.L. Electronics Engineering and Manufacturing Services, Ltd.., in the Philippines by Ionics Circuits, Inc. and in China by UnionBridge international limited. These subcontractors may have limited manufacturing capacity that may be inadequate if our customers place orders for unexpectedly large quantities of our products. In addition, because our subcontractors are located in Israel and the Philippines, they on occasion may feel the impact of potential economic or political instability in those regions. Although we believe that alternative manufacturing capacity for our products is available, if the operations of one or more of these subcontractors were halted or limited, even temporarily, or if they were unable or unwilling to fulfil large orders, we could experience business interruption, increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of our customers. The process of qualifying a new subcontractor may require several months. 8 Volatility in the communications equipment industry may affect our sales and, as a result, we could experience reduced sales or operating results. The communications equipment industry in which our customers operate historically has been volatile and is characterized by fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. This volatility could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. We believe that communications equipment industry sales will be affected adversely by unfavorable global economic conditions and reduced capital spending by businesses. Any such adverse conditions will also cause a decrease in the demand for our products. If economic conditions in the United States and worldwide do not continue to improve or if they worsen from current levels, demand for our products may fail to develop and our sales may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if in periods of decreased demand we are unable to adjust our levels of manufacturing and human resources or manage our costs and deliveries from suppliers in response to lower spending by manufacturers, our gross margin might decline and we may experience operating losses. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our products in order to incorporate them into their products. Accordingly, our sales process is subject to delays associated with the approval process that may accompany the design and testing of new products. This approval process can last between three and six months or longer. This creates unpredictability regarding the time in which we will generate sales. As a result, orders that we expect in one quarter may be deferred to another because of the timing of customers’ purchasing decisions. Therefore, our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Additionally, our past operating history has shown that we often realize a significant percentage of our quarterly sales toward the end of a quarter, often in the last weeks or days of the quarter. A delay in the completion of a sale past the end of a particular quarter could harm results for that quarter. Factors that could cause our sales and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • our product and customer sales mix; • customer demand for our products; • the timing and success of new product introductions and new technologies by our competitors and us; • a reduction in the price or the profitability of our products; • changes in the availability or the cost of components and materials; • our ability to bring new products into volume production efficiently; and • market conditions in the communications equipment industry and the economy as a whole. We depend on third parties to warehouse our products, which could hinder our ability to satisfy customer demand on a timely basis. We rely on independent warehouses to store our products after manufacturing and before shipping to customers. Any problems that result because of their errors, or because of unforeseen interruptions in their storage of our products, or damage to, or loss of, our products as a result of strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters and accidents, could hinder our ability to satisfy customer demands on a timely basis, which, in turn, could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. 9 Undetected product defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our products may contain defects that were undetected when initially shipped. Our customers integrate our components, integrated circuits and modules into systems and products that they develop themselves or acquire from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in equipment or in a system that incorporates our products or technology, it may be difficult to identify the exact cause of these problems. Regardless of the source of these defects, we must divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our research and development efforts to address the defects. We do not know whether, in the future, we will incur warranty costs, be subject to liability claims or litigation for damages related to product errors or experience delays as a result of these errors. If litigation were to arise, regardless of its outcome, it could result in substantial expenses to us, significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and disrupt or otherwise severely impact our relationships with current and potential customers. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not provide sufficient protection against an asserted claim. In addition, if any of our products fails to meet specifications or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in sales, an increase in product returns or warranty costs, a loss of existing customers or the failure to attract new customers. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with all of our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have recently required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. A loss of the services of Igal Rotem, our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, or Ilan Atias, our co-founder and President, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on the continued services of Igal Rotem, our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, and Ilan Atias, our co-founder and President. Messrs. Rotem and Atias are required to serve military reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and could be called to active duty in the event of an armed conflict at any time. Any loss of the services of Mr. Rotem or Mr. Atias could result in a gap in senior management and the loss of technical expertise necessary for us to succeed, which could cause our sales to decline and impair our ability to meet our objectives. We sell our products in a number of countries throughout the world and we have subcontractors and suppliers in a number of locations, and therefore our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international operations effectively. We are headquartered in Israel and have offices in the United States, Taiwan, Korea and India. In addition, we employ sales persons who are based in Portugal and the United Kingdom. One of our principal subcontractors is located in the Philippines. We generated substantially all of our sales in 2005 in North America, as well as in Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Part of our strategy is to expand our sales in existing foreign markets and to enter new foreign markets. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international sales and operations subject us to many risks inherent in international business activities, including: 10 • technology export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • imposition of or increases in tariffs; • changes in regulatory requirements and communications standards; • greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; • difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiary and our international operations; and • difficulties managing our subcontractors, particularly in the Philippines. We may encounter significant difficulties in connection with the sale and manufacture of our products in international markets as a result of one or more of these factors. These difficulties could decrease our sales or increase our costs or both. We may acquire additional technical design capabilities or complementary businesses or technologies. These acquisitions could divert our resources, cause dilution to our shareholders and adversely affect our financial results. We may acquire additional technical design capabilities or complementary businesses or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date and our management has not had any experience making acquisitions or integrating acquired businesses. Negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly acquired businesses, products or technologies into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time consuming. Acquisitions could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated sales and cost benefits. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, or issuances of equity securities that cause dilution to our existing shareholders. Furthermore, we may incur contingent liability or possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. If Power-over-Ethernet technology does not achieve widespread acceptance, our sales will be lower than expected, which will harm our financial condition and results of operations. The success of our Power-over-Ethernet products depends on widespread acceptance of Power-over-Ethernet technology. We cannot guarantee that Power-over-Ethernet technology or our Power-over-Ethernet products will achieve widespread acceptance. The rate of acceptance may be affected adversely by perceived issues relating to quality and reliability, consumers’ reluctance to invest in new technologies, their inability to realize cost savings because they have already invested in existing power cabling, the extensive testing and complex circuitry required to implement Power-over-Ethernet, the amount of time that it will take for Power-over-Ethernet to displace power cabling as a method to power end-devices, and widespread acceptance of other technologies. If our Power-over-Ethernet integrated circuits do not achieve widespread acceptance, sales of our Power-over-Ethernet products would be lower than we expect which, in turn, would decrease our sales and harm our financial condition and results of operations. 11 If voice-over-Internet protocol telephones and, to a lesser extent, wireless LAN access points and advanced security devices do not achieve widespread acceptance, sales of our Power-over-Ethernet products will develop more slowly than we anticipate. Our Power-over-Ethernet products provide power to a number of end-devices that receive data over Ethernet cables. We believe that the most significant application for Power-over-Ethernet products are switches and other communications networking equipment that enable delivery of voice communications over Ethernet cables to specifically designed voice-over-Internet protocol, or voice-over-IP, telephones. We also believe that another application for Power-over-Ethernet products is the delivery of power to access points that form a part of a wireless LAN and to other end-devices, such as advanced security devices, connected to an Ethernet network. Voice-over-IP, wireless LAN and advanced security technologies are relatively new and rapidly evolving. Our assessments as to the markets for our products are based, in part, on market projections prepared by third parties. These markets may not grow at the projected rates if the assumptions underlying this data turn out to be incorrect. Our ability to increase sales of our Power-over-Ethernet products in the future depends principally on the adoption and widespread use of voice-over-IP, and, to a lesser extent, wireless LAN and advanced security devices. The rate of adoption might be hindered by: • actual or perceived issues relating to poor data transmission quality and reliability; • the reluctance of end-users, primarily businesses and other enterprises who have invested substantial resources in their existing voice and data networks, to replace or expand their current networks with these new technologies; • regulatory hurdles that could slow the growth of the use of these technologies; and • the emergence of newer technologies. If voice-over-IP, wireless LAN and advanced security devices do not achieve widespread acceptance or new products that utilize these technologies are not developed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed because our sales of Power-over-Ethernet products would be lower than expected. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. Our principal executive offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel and a small portion of our sales are made to customers in Israel. In addition, one of our key subcontractors is located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may affect directly our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbours. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could affect adversely our operations. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other factors related to Israel could harm our operations and product development process and could decrease sales. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may limit seriously our ability to sell our products in these countries. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our male employees in Israel, including members of senior management, are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually until they reach age 54 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. A disruption could materially adversely affect our business. 12 All of our sales are generated in U.S. dollars or are linked to the U.S. dollar while a portion of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels; therefore, our results of operations would be affected adversely by any strengthening of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. All of our sales are in U.S. dollars or are linked to the U.S. dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related expenses of our Israeli personnel, are in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. We currently do not hedge our currency exposure through financial instruments. Accordingly, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict any future trends in the exchange rate of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. Any strengthening of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar would increase the U.S. dollar cost of our operations and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations would be affected adversely. You may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us or our executive officers and directors or in asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. The tax benefits available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. Once we generate taxable income, we will be able to take advantage of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the “approved enterprise” status of our facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment, and financing a percentage of investments with share capital. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits will be cancelled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we might already have received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. In addition, in March 2005, an amendment to the governing law was adopted (See “Item 10.E Taxation - Israeli Taxation — Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959”). The termination or reduction of these tax benefits may increase our expenses in the future, thereby reducing our expected profits or increasing our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Item 10.E. Taxation - Israeli Taxation — Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” for more information about these programs. Provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of PowerDsine, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. In addition, our articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as classified board provisions. Furthermore, Israel tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of PowerDsine, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. 13 We may be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based upon our income and assets, and assuming that we are entitled to value our intangible assets with reference to the market value of our shares, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for our taxable year ending on December 31, 2005. While we intend to manage our business so as to avoid passive foreign investment company status, to the extent consistent with our other business goals, we cannot predict whether our business plans will allow us to avoid passive foreign investment company status or whether our business plans will change in a manner that affects our passive foreign investment company status determination. In addition, because the market price of our ordinary shares is likely to fluctuate and the market price of the shares of technology companies has been especially volatile, and because that market price may affect the determination of whether we will considered a passive foreign investment company, we cannot assure that we will not be considered a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year. Unless our market cap increases by a significant amount relative to the value of our assets that are treated as passive, there is a significant risk that we will be a passive foreign investment company for the 2006 tax year. For example, if the value of our assets and the market price of our shares were to remain at approximately the same level as they were at December 31, 2005 over the course of 2006, then the IRS would treat us as a passive foreign investment company for the 2006 tax year. See “Item 10.E United States Federal Income Tax Considerations - Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations”. 14 ITEM 