Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information set forth in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Risks Related to Our Business The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. Since December 2007, the United States economy has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are experiencing difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes which resulted in a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to put pressure on rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to increase the cost and decrease the availability of credit and liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $350 billion in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset value in most categories have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be more limited. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates (the Region 2000 area of Virginia) and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2008, households and business in the United States have been adversely effected by the deteriorating business environment. Although the business environment in Virginia generally has declined, the impact has been less severe in Region 2000 than in many other areas in Virginia and in the United States. It is expected that the business growth in Region 2000 may be limited for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents The markets for our services are highly competitive and we face substantial competition. The banking business is highly competitive. We compete as a financial intermediary with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms soliciting business from residents of and businesses located in Lynchburg, Virginia and surrounding areas and elsewhere. Many of these competing institutions have greater resources than we have. Specifically, many of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages, including greater financial resources, a wider geographic presence or more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer additional services, greater marketing resources, more favorable pricing alternatives, and lower origination and operating costs. We are also subject to lower lending limits than our larger competitors. Increased competitive pressures have been one effect of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. This competition could result in a decrease in loans we originate and could negatively affect our results of operations. In attracting deposits, we compete with insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions, and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Traditional banking institutions, as well as entities intending to transact business solely online, are increasingly using the Internet to attract deposits without geographic or physical limitations. In addition, many non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we offer, which could result in either attracting fewer deposits or increasing our interest rates in order to attract deposits. Increased deposit competition could increase our cost of funds and could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for our lending operations, which would negatively affect our results of operations. We have a limited operating history upon which to base any estimate of our future success. We and our subsidiaries have limited operating histories. As a consequence, there is limited historical financial information on which to base any estimate of our future performance. The financial statements presented in this report may not be as meaningful as those of a company which has a longer history of operations. Because of our limited operating history, you may not have access to the type and amount of information that would be available to a shareholder of a financial institution with a more extended operating history. Opening new branches may not result in increased assets or revenues for us. As set forth below, we are considering opening additional branches over the next 18 months (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Expansion Plans”). The investment necessary for these branch expansions may negatively impact our earnings and efficiency ratio. There is a risk that we will be unable to manage our growth, as the process of opening new branches may divert our time and resources. There is a risk that, if we do open these branches, they may not be profitable, which would negatively impact our results of operations. There is also risk that we may fail to open any additional branches. Our plans for future expansion depend, in some instances, on factors beyond our control, and an unsuccessful attempt to achieve growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We expect to continue to engage in new branch expansion in the future. We may also seek to acquire other financial institutions, or parts of those institutions, though we have no present plans in that regard. Expansion involves a number of risks, including: • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices; • the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our entrance into new markets where we lack experience; and 15 Table of Contents • the introduction of new products and services with which we have no prior experience into our business. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors, and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance, and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Additional growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, and capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition, and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources are sufficient to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. If the value of real estate in our core market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With most of our loans concentrated in the Region 2000 areas surrounding Lynchburg, Virginia, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2008, approximately 83% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the teamwork and increased productivity fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters teamwork and increased productivity. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our executive management team, consisting of Robert R. Chapman III, J. Todd Scruggs, and Harry P. Umberger. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our growth and profitability. 16 Table of Contents As a community bank, the Bank has different lending risks than larger banks. We provide services to our local communities. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to small to medium-sized businesses, professionals, and individuals which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment, and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. We cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on liabilities, such as NOW accounts, savings accounts, time deposits and other borrowings. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”). The Bank is primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve and the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions (“BFI”). Our compliance with Federal Reserve and the BFI regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements by our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The costs of being a public company are proportionately higher for small companies like us due to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Many of these regulations are applicable to our company. We expect to experience increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls and the requirement that our auditors attest to and report on management’s assessment of our internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These necessary costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. 17 Table of Contents Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 