D. Risk factors An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk and should be considered speculative. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report, including under Item 5: "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" and in our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, before making any investment. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be seriously harmed and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION THERE IS EXPRESSED DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN, WHICH MAY HINDER OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FUTURE FINANCING. Our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report were prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. We have incurred operating losses, expect to continue to incur losses, and have not generated sufficient revenues since our inception. The Company’s accumulated deficit at December 31, 2007 was $65,381,861 (2006 - $33,814,171). If the Company is unable to achieve significant revenues in the future or secure alternative sources of capital or financing including milestone payments or product out-licensing, we will have inadequate funds to continue our existing corporate, administrative, and operational functions beyond the second quarter of 2008. We also have commitments under our University of Alberta license agreement to make milestone payments of $250,000 when we enter Phase III clinical trials on each of the product candidates derived from the intellectual property licensed under that Agreement. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate revenues, a profit and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities, increasing sales or obtaining loans and grants from various financial institutions where possible. The going concern uncertainty modification in the auditor's report increases the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. WE MUST RAISE MONEY FROM INVESTORS TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS, WE MAY CEASE DOING BUSINESS. As at December 31, 2007, we had cash reserves, in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of $2,575,248. On March 31, 2008, we had $1339,223 in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. In fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we generated $2,283,769 in operating activities compared to a use of cash of $9,027,103 in fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and $7,551,102 in fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. Without additional funding and capital, we will have inadequate funds to continue our existing corporate, administrative, and operational functions beyond the second quarter of 2008. The average monthly amount of cash that we are using, and expect to use over the next 12-18 months for all of our operations, is approximately $500,000. For a further discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, you should also refer to Item 5: "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" in this Annual Report. 8 We expect to continue to seek additional sources of funding to finance operations into the future, through public or private equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with strategic partners and/or from other sources. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available or, even if it is available, that it will be sufficient and available on terms acceptable to us. WE HAVE NOT DERIVED ANY REVENUE TO DATE FROM THE COMMERCIAL SALE OF PRODUCT CANDIDATES, HAVE NEVER HAD ANY REVENUES FROM COMMERCIAL SALES AND HAVE RELIED ON EQUITY AND DEBT FINANCINGS TO SUPPORT OUR OPERATIONS. We have not derived any revenue to date from the commercial sale of product candidates and have no product candidates for sale. Our future profitability will depend upon our ability to enter into suitable licensing or partnering arrangements to commercialize our product candidates obtain regulatory approvals and bring product candidates to market in a timely manner. We have relied solely on equity and debt financing, government grants, and milestone payments from potential product out-licensing to support our operations. We have not commercially introduced any product candidates and the product candidates are in varying stages of development and testing. Our ability to sell an approved commercial product will depend upon our ability to develop products that are safe, effective and commercially viable, to obtain regulatory approval for the manufacture and sales of our product candidates and to license or otherwise market our product candidates successfully. We may never commercialize an approved product and may have to rely on equity, debt financings and collaborative agreements to support ongoing operations. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND WE EXPECT TO INCUR FUTURE LOSSES. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ACHIEVE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES IN THE FUTURE, WE WILL CEASE DOING BUSINESS. Since our inception, we have incurred significant losses each year. Our accumulated deficit from inception to December 31, 2007 is $65,381,861. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses as we continue our product-candidate research and development and potential clinical trials. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and working capital. Unless we are able to generate sufficient product revenue, we will continue to incur losses from operations and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. Our ability to generate revenue in the future is dependent, in large part, on completing product development, obtaining regulatory approvals, and commercializing, or entering into agreements with third parties to commercialize, our product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will ever successfully commercialize or achieve revenues from sales of our therapeutic product candidates if they are successfully developed or that we will ever achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. Until we receive regulatory approval for sales of product candidates incorporating our licensed and/or patented technologies, we cannot sell our product candidates and will not have revenues from sales. The research, development, production, and marketing of new products require the application of considerable technical and financial resources. However, any revenues generated from such product candidates, assuming they are successfully developed, marketed, and sold, may not be realized for a number of years. WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses connection with: • the Chimigen™ Platform technology to develop therapeutic as well as prophylactic vaccines for the treatment of different viral diseases; • our expenses will increase as we commence new preclinical and clinical trials as we progress existing product candidates to more advanced phases of pre-clinical and clinical development in the event that we are not able to obtain a licensing partner. The more advanced trials typically require more clinical trial participants, clinical trial sites and research investigators than earlier stage clinical trials and are consequently more expensive; We also expect to incur significant general and administrative expenses in support of our increased operations as well as the ongoing costs to operate as a company listed on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) and on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”). Over the longer term, the costs referred to above will fluctuate, primarily dependant on the number and type of preclinical and clinical trials being undertaken at any one time and the number of regulatory marketing authorizations being sought. Costs will also increase if we are able to progress any product candidates from preclinical testing to clinical trials or if we are able to complete clinical trials in the event that we are not able to obtain a licensing partner of any product candidates and seek regulatory marketing authorizations. 9 WE WILL CONTINUE TO NEED SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS OF ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE TO US ON FAVORABLE TERMS OR AT ALL OR WHICH MAY BE DILUTIVE. To date, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures with proceeds from the sale of our securities, government grants and interest on investments. In order to achieve our goal of being a successful biotechnology company and to conduct the lengthy and expensive research, preclinical studies, clinical trials, regulatory approval process, manufacture, sales and marketing necessary to complete the full development of our product candidates, we may require substantial additional funds in addition to the funds received in connection with the United States (“U.S.”) private offerings and the various Canadian placements completed in 2006. In April 2008, we expect to file a final short form prospectus for a rights offering. The subscription price has not yet been determined and will be equal to the weighted average of the closing price of the Company’s common shares on the TSX for each of the trading days on which there was a closing price during the three trading days immediately preceding the date of the final prospectus in respect of the offering, less a discount of 25%. The Company has applied to list on the TSX the rights distributed under the short form prospectus and the shares issuable upon the exercise of the rights. Approval of such listing will be subject to the Company fulfilling all of the listing requirements of the TSX. The Company has applied to list the shares issuable upon the exercise of the rights (but not the rights themselves) on the AMEX. Approval of such listings will be subject to the Company fulfilling all of the listing requirements of the AMEX. The offering will only be available to existing shareholders on the, as yet to be determined, record date. The Company anticipates raising net proceeds of approximately CDN$5 million dollars which translates to approximately 12 to 18 months of operating capital. To further meet our financing requirements, we may raise funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and through other means, including collaborations and license agreements. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our shareholders to experience significant additional dilution in their ownership interests. Raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities. Additional funding may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may be forced to delay, reduce the scope of or terminate preclinical and/or clinical trials and the development, manufacturing and marketing of our products. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may have to relinquish valuable rights and control over our technologies, research programs or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. IF WE FAIL TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS AND COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. The Company’s focus in 2008-2009 is to concentrate its internal resources on bringing additional Chimigen™ Platform Vaccines into development, as well as working on establishing a partnership for the development and commercialization of Occlusin™ 500 Artificial Embolization Device (“AED”) in Europe and / or Asia. ViRexx will also seek partnerships to move the AIT™ Platform strategy forward, both in the clinical and pre-clinical areas. Analysis of the past trials will lay the foundation for any future trials of OvaRex® MAb in conjunction with front-line chemotherapy. A number of companies have expressed interest in partnering with ViRexx to work on several of the other MAbs in the AIT™ Platform. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements only through to the second quarter of 2008. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope, results, rate of progress, timing and costs of preclinical studies and clinical trials and other development activities. Specifically, the funding requirements for clinical trials of Occlusin™ 500 AED and Occlusin™ 50 Injection. The funding requirements for the preclinical testing and potential future clinical testing of our earlier-stage product candidates and any other testing that we may initiate are also significant. As a result, we will be looking to partner these product candidates prior to initiating Phase II clinical trials and /or funding selected projects based on funding availability; • the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs of developing sales and marketing capabilities and establishing distribution capabilities; • the cost of developing our commercial-scale capabilities; • the cost of additional management, scientific, manufacturing, and sales and marketing personnel. We may be required to increase the number of our personnel over time; • the terms, timing and cash requirements of any future acquisitions, collaborative arrangements, licensing of product candidates or investing in businesses, product candidates and technologies; 10 • the costs of securing coverage, payment and reimbursement of our product candidates, if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval; and • the effects of competing clinical, technological and market developments. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs or future commercialization efforts. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY WE ARE IN THE EARLY STAGES OF DEVELOPING PRODUCT CANDIDATES. OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE AT A LEVEL SUFFICIENT TO SUPPORT A PROFITABLE BUSINESS VENTURE. IF THEY ARE NOT, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO CREATE MARKETABLE PRODUCT CANDIDATES AND DERIVE ANY MEANINGFUL REVENUES. UNLESS WE ARE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT PRODUCT REVENUE, WE WILL CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS AND MAY NOT ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY AND WE WILL HAVE TO CEASE OPERATIONS. Some of our product candidates are in the preliminary development stage, have not been approved for marketing by any regulatory authority and cannot be commercially distributed in any markets until such approval is obtained. We cannot assure you that our Chimigen™ Vaccines, tumor starvation therapies and monoclonal antibody therapies, will be effective at a level sufficient to support a profitable business venture. The science on which our technologies are based may also fail due to flaws or inaccuracies in the data, or because the data is not predictive of future results. The scientific theories, upon which our business is based, like all science, will evolve over time and become increasingly predictive of the world in which we live. One potential consequence of imperfect theories may be that we will never be able to create a marketable product. If we are unable to do so, we will not generate revenues, will have to cease operations, and investors will be at risk of losing their entire investment. In addition, it takes a significant period of time for new vaccines, medical devices and therapeutic drugs and monoclonal antibody therapies, to be developed, to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to permit sales, to establish appropriate distribution channels and market acceptance, and to obtain insurer reimbursement approval. This time period is generally not less than 10 years. None of our therapeutic product candidates have been commercialized and completion of the commercialization process for any of our product candidates will require significant investments of time and funds. We cannot predict either the total amount of funds that will be required, or assure you that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary funds. It is also not possible for us to predict the time required to complete the regulatory process or if there will be sufficient market demand at such time. If any of our product candidates are approved, we cannot give assurances that it will be possible to produce them in commercial quantities at reasonable cost, successfully market them, or whether any investment made by us in the commercialization of any product candidates would be recovered through sales, license fees, or related royalties. Furthermore, the time it takes for product candidates to reach market acceptance exposes us to significant additional risks, including the development of competing products, loss of investor interest, changing market needs, changes in personnel, and regulatory changes. Since the process of discovering and developing cancer therapies and treatments for chronic viral infections is our core business, we anticipate that we will remain engaged in research and development for the foreseeable future. As product candidates advance to commercialization, we expect that research will identify other potential candidates for development. WE RELY ON, AND INTEND IN THE FUTURE TO CONTINUE TO RELY ON, TECHNOLOGY LICENSES FROM THIRD PARTIES AND ANY BREACH OR TERMINATION OF THESE LICENSE ARRANGEMENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We cannot assure you that we will obtain any additional required licenses, that our existing licenses or new licenses, if obtained, will not terminate, or that they will be renewed. The failure to obtain, the termination of, or the failure to renew any of these licenses could have a material adverse effect on our pre-clinical and clinical programs and may cause us to suspend or cease our operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that these licenses will remain in good standing or that the technology we have licensed under these agreements has been adequately protected or is free from claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Pursuant to the terms of the licenses and any agreements we may enter into in the future, we are and could be obligated to exercise diligence in bringing potential products to market and to make license payments and certain potential milestone payments that, in some instances, could be substantial. We are obligated and may in the future be obligated, to make royalty payments on the sales, if any, of product candidates resulting from licensed technology and, in some instances, may be responsible for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. 11 Because we require additional funding, we may not be able to make payments under current or future license agreements, which may result in our breaching the terms of any such license agreements. Any breach or termination of any license could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. OUR FAILURE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR OUR INFRINGEMENT ON THE PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS MAY IMPEDE OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE FREELY. We continually evaluate our technology to determine whether to make further patent filings and rely significantly upon proprietary technology. We protect our intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual agreements as appropriate. We own or exclusively license 9 issued U.S. patents having expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2021. As we develop our product candidates, we may discover additional patentable subject matter that we may elect to prosecute. Prior to filing a patent, data developed by the Company or its licensees is held in confidence, which confidence is secured by contractual arrangement. From time to time management may make a determination that superior economic gain may be attained by perpetually protecting an invention as a trade secret rather than disclosing it in a patent application. Inventions held as trade secrets can be independently discovered by others. In addition, the contractual agreements by which we protect our unpatented technology and trade secrets may be breached. If technology similar to ours is independently developed or our contractual agreements are breached, our technology will lose value and our business will be irreparably harmed. There is always a risk that issued patents may be subsequently invalidated, either in whole or in part, and this could diminish or extinguish our patent protection for key elements of our technology. We are not involved in any such litigation or proceedings, nor are we aware of any basis for such litigation or proceedings. We cannot be certain as to the scope of patent protection, if any, which may be granted on our patent applications. Having patents issued does not guarantee that our business activities are not infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. Any claims against us or any purchaser or user of our potential products asserting that such product or process infringes intellectual property rights of third parties could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or future operations. Any asserted claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event a claim is successful against us and we cannot obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology or redesign our potential products to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND FAILURE TO ACHIEVE REGULATORY APPROVAL OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES WOULD SEVERELY HARM OUR BUSINESS. The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacture, record-keeping, labeling, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products in the U.S. pursuant to the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and related regulations. We must receive approval by the FDA prior to commercial sale in the U.S. of any of our product candidates. Similar regulations are enforced by Health Canada, European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) and by other regulatory agencies in each jurisdiction in which we seek to do business. The regulatory review process is lengthy and expensive, and the outcome of the approval process is uncertain. Before receiving approval we must acquire and submit extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information for each indication to establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates. In addition, we must show that we can produce our drug candidates consistently at quality levels suitable for administration in humans in accordance with a complex set of regulations known in the U.S. as current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”). Premarket approval is a lengthy and expensive process and takes several years. Future legislation or changes in FDA policy may change during the period of potential product development and clinical trials. We may not be able to obtain FDA approval or approval from other regulatory agencies for any commercial sale of any drug candidate. We may encounter delays or rejections in the regulatory approval process at any time. Even if approval is obtained, agencies may determine that additional clinical trials are required after marketing has begun. Except for any potential licensing or marketing arrangements with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, we will not generate any revenues in connection with our drug candidates unless and until we obtain clearance from the FDA, Health Canada, EMEA, or comparable agencies to commercialize our product candidates. Given the uncertainty, extensive time, and financial expenditures involved in moving a drug through the regulatory and clinical trial process in the U.S., Canada, Europe, and elsewhere, we may never be able to successfully develop safe, commercially viable products. If we are unable to do so, we may have to cease operations. 12 WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME OF PRECLINICAL TESTING AND CLINICAL TRIALS. None of our product candidates are currently approved for sale by the FDA, EMEA, and Health Canada or by any other regulatory agency in the world, and they may never receive approval for sale or become commercially viable. Before obtaining regulatory approval for sale, each of our product candidates must be subjected to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy for each proposed indication for human use. Our success will depend on the successful outcome of these preclinical tests and clinical trials. There are multiple risk factors associated with conducting clinical trials of our investigational drug and device product candidates. There may be unforeseen delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with Institutional Review Boards of clinical trial providers with respect to proposed clinical study protocols. There may also be delays in reaching satisfactory financial agreements with prospective clinical trial sites and the investigators themselves. There may be regulatory delays of clinical trials related to obtaining FDA, Health Canada, EMEA, or other regulatory agency clearance to begin patient treatment in a clinical trial. A common issue in conducting a clinical trial is that delays encountered in the enrollment of patients may significantly prolong the length of time required to conduct the clinical studies. A prime risk factor of clinical trials is that the study outcome may reveal that the product candidate does not demonstrate the anticipated level of effectiveness in the target patient population. Such outcomes may adversely affect the approvability of the potential product by regulatory agencies. Similarly, clinical trials may show that an investigational product causes unacceptable adverse events in the patient population to be treated with the drug. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and from early clinical trials have not always been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. Frequently, drugs that have shown promising results in preclinical or early clinical trials subsequently fail to demonstrate sufficient evidence of safety or effectiveness necessary to obtain regulatory approval. Our success will depend on the success of our current clinical trials and subsequent clinical trials that have not yet begun. Moreover, regulatory agencies such as the FDA, Health Canada and EMEA may impose specific standards on the evaluation of disease response in individual patients which may differ from those anticipated by ViRexx or its clinical advisors. These different standards may lead the regulatory agency to conclude that study subjects receiving any of our product candidates have had a more modest clinical response than that determined by ViRexx or its clinical advisors. In addition to the risks mentioned, there are a number of other difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials. The possibility exists that: (a) we may discover that our product candidates may cause, alone or in combination with another therapy, unacceptable side effects; (b) we may discover that our product candidates, alone or in combination with another therapy, do not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans; (c) results from early trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained from large-scale, advanced clinical trials as mentioned above; (d) we or the FDA or other regulatory agencies may suspend the clinical trials of one or more of our product candidates; (e) patient recruitment may be slower than expected; (f) patients may drop out of our clinical trials; and (g) there may be cost overruns. Although the FDA and EMEA have granted OvaRex® MAb Orphan Drug Status for its use in ovarian cancer, this status does not diminish any of the requirements for market approval. Orphan Drug status in the U.S. provides seven year market exclusivity and ten years in Europe. Given the uncertainty surrounding the regulatory and clinical trial process, we may not be able to develop safety, efficacy or manufacturing data necessary for approval of this or any of our product candidates. In addition, even if we receive approval, such approval may be limited in scope and affect the commercial viability of such product candidate. If we are unable to successfully obtain approval to commercialize any product candidate, this would materially harm our business, impair our ability to generate revenues and adversely impact our stock price. DELAYS IN CLINICAL TRIALS WILL CAUSE US TO INCUR ADDITIONAL COSTS, WHICH COULD JEOPARDIZE THE TRIALS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. For internally funded clinical trials and due to the associated high costs, a delay for any reason, will require us to spend additional funds to keep our product candidates moving through the regulatory process. If we do not have or cannot raise the necessary additional funds, the testing of our product candidates could be cancelled. If we are required to spend additional funds, it will require us to spend funds that could have been used for other purposes and could adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. Delays in obtaining clinical trial results will also delay profitability from commercialization of any given product candidate and accordingly negatively effect our financial results. 13 WE RELY ON CLINICAL INVESTIGATORS AND CONTRACT RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS TO CONDUCT OUR CLINICAL TRIALS. We rely, in part, on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials. Contract research organizations also assist us in the collection and analysis of the data generated from these clinical trials. These investigators and contract research organizations are not our employees and we cannot control, other than by contract, the amount of resources, including time that they devote to our product candidates and our clinical trials. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient resources to our clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, these factors may delay any possible approval and commercialization of our product candidates and could harm our chances of obtaining regulatory approval. Further, most regulatory agencies require that we comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practice (“GCP”) for conducting, recording, and reporting clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity, and confidentiality of trial subjects are protected. If our independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations fail to comply with GCP, the results of our clinical trials could be called into question and the clinical development of our product candidates could be delayed or halted. The failure of clinical investigators and contract research organizations to meet their obligations to us or comply with GCP procedures could adversely affect the clinical development of our product candidates, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. THERE ARE RISKS INHERENT IN RELYING ON SOLE SOURCE SUPPLIER FOR SOME OF OUR MATERIALS. We are reliant upon the supply of raw materials from key suppliers in the manufacture of our product candidates. These key suppliers currently meet our manufacturing requirements but they could default in the supply of the raw material for several reasons, including insolvency, lack of regulatory compliance, inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the raw material, fire, and natural disasters. Although we have made every effort to identify alternate source suppliers of these raw materials, there is no guarantee that supply agreements would be established with these suppliers if the primary supplier defaults in the supply of raw material. If we are unable to procure the requisite raw materials for the manufacture of product candidates, then we might not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of the drug candidate for pre-clinical and clinical testing purposes. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON STRATEGIC PARTNERS, SUCH AS THE SIGMA TAU GROUP OF COMPANIES, AS PART OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY, AND WE WOULD BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO INITIATE OR MAINTAIN THESE RELATIONSHIPS. In November 2006, ViRexx International Corp. (“International”) entered into a License and Supply Agreement with Defiante Farmaceutica, Lda. (“Defiante”), a subsidiary of Sigma Tau Farmaceutica (“Sigma Tau”) for the marketing of OvaRex® MAb for certain unlicensed countries in Europe. At the same time, International entered into a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement with Tecnogen S.C.p.A (“Tecnogen”), another subsidiary of Sigma Tau, for Tecnogen to manufacture OvaRex® MAb for most of Europe and the Middle East. Once some of our product candidates advance to a Phase II clinical trial stage, we intend to enter into strategic partnerships whereby third parties will finance further clinical development. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to find partners and establish such relationships on favorable terms, if at all, or that any such future arrangements will be successful. Should any partner fail to develop or commercialize successfully any product candidates to which we have licensed product rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. The failure of any collaborative partner to continue funding any particular program, for any reason, could delay or halt the development or commercialization of any potential product arising out of a particular program. In addition, we cannot assure that any of our future partners would not pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative product candidates either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by our programs. WE RELY ON COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR MANUFACTURING OUR TRIAL MATERIAL AND PRODUCT CANDIDATES We are, or could rely upon various collaborators or contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs) for manufacturing of product candidate from all three of our technology platforms. These collaborators and CMOs are not our employees and we cannot control, other than by contract, the amount of resources, including time that they devote to the manufacture of our product candidates. If independent manufacturers fail to devote sufficient resources to manufacture of our product candidates, or if their performance is substandard, these factors may delay any possible approval and commercialization of our product candidates. 14 Further, most regulatory agencies require that we comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) for manufacturing product candidates that will be used in human clinical trials or for commercial sale to assure that each batch of the product candidate are of consistent quality. If our independent manufacturers fail to comply with GMP, the clinical development of our product candidates could be delayed or halted. The failure of independent manufacturers to meet their obligations to us or comply with GMP procedures could adversely affect the clinical development of our product candidates, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. EVEN IF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES RECEIVE ALL OF THE REQUIRED REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE HAVE NO GUARANTEE OF MARKET ACCEPTANCE OR COMMERCIALIZATION OF THE RESULTING PRODUCT CANDIDATES, WHICH WILL BE DETERMINED BY OUR SALES, MARKETING, AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES AND THE POSITIONING AND COMPETITIVENESS OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES COMPARED WITH ANY ALTERNATIVES. Even if our product candidates receive all necessary regulatory approvals and clearances, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers, and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any product candidate that we may develop will depend on a number of factors, including marketing and distribution support for the product candidates, establishment and demonstration of the cost-effectiveness of the product candidates, and the potential advantage of our product candidates over any alternatives. Even after successful commercialization of one or more product candidates, we may never achieve profitability. We currently depend on our licensees for their sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities, and therefore must rely on these third parties to perform these services optimally. These distribution partners may not promote our product candidates as aggressively as we would like, may not be successful in their sales and distribution efforts, may experience financial difficulty or lack the marketing or financial ability to adequately market our product candidates, or may fail to promote our product candidates altogether. Third party marketers may be involved in the sale of competing products and fail to market our product candidates due to this conflict. In addition, if the profit margins on our product candidates do not favorably compare with other products being marketed by a third party marketer, our product candidates may not be promoted as readily. As in the case of any contractual relationship if either party defaults under the marketing agreement, sales of our product candidates may suffer. If we terminate a marketer of our product candidates, we may not be able to find an immediate replacement. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These events may also lead us to try to establish our own marketing and sales force. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on our potential product development efforts. Moreover, we may not be able to establish in-house sales and distribution capabilities or relationships with third parties. If successfully developed, our product candidates will compete with a number of drugs and therapies currently manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our product candidates may also compete with new products currently under development by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and with products which may cost less than our product candidates or that may be more effective than our product candidates. If our product candidates do not achieve significant market acceptance, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. REIMBURSEMENT PROCEDURES AND FUTURE HEALTHCARE REFORM MEASURES ARE UNCERTAIN AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY SELL OR LICENSE ANY PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT CANDIDATE. If any of our potential products are approved for commercialization by national pharmaceutical regulatory authorities, the extent of sales will depend upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers such as Medicare in the U.S. and similar government health administration authorities in other countries, as well as private health insurers and other organizations. Our ability to successfully sell or license any pharmaceutical product candidate will depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations will reimburse patients or providers for the costs of any future pharmaceutical product candidates and related treatments. Each jurisdiction has its own regulatory requirements. Significant variation exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and we cannot assure you that adequate third party coverage will be available to establish price levels sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in developing new product candidates or for existing product candidates. Increasingly, government and other third-party payers are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic product candidates. Reimbursement levels may be related to issues of cost-effectiveness, which are evaluated differently in different jurisdictions. Inadequate coverage or reimbursement could adversely affect market acceptance of our product candidates. Recently, the prices of medical products and services have been examined and challenged by third parties and consumers of such products and services. Successful challenges or government reform in this area could negatively affect our profitability. 15 In the U.S., government and other third-party payers have sought to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new pharmaceutical products approved for marketing by the FDA. In some cases, these parties may place conditions on the use of new products which limit their market penetration or may refuse to provide any coverage for uses of approved products to treat medical conditions even though the FDA has granted marketing approval. Healthcare reform may increase these cost containment efforts. U.S. managed care organizations and government health insurance programs may seek to restrict the use of new products, delay authorization to use new products or limit coverage. New rule making by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services could affect drug coverage and payments by Medicare. Internationally, where government healthcare systems are prevalent, little if any funding may be available for new products, and cost containment and cost reduction efforts can be more pronounced than in the U.S. COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES MAY REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES AND TECHNOLOGIES. Our success depends upon maintaining our competitive position in the research, development, and commercialization of products and technologies in our area of expertise. Competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as universities and research institutes, is intense and is expected to increase. Many of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, more experience in manufacturing and marketing, as well as superior financial and managerial resources than we do and represent significant competition for us. We cannot assure you that developments by others will not render our product candidates or technologies non-competitive or obsolete, or that we will be able to achieve the level of acceptance within the medical community necessary to compete successfully. We are aware of several potential competitors that are at various stages of development or that have commercial sales of products that may address similar indication as do our products. The success of our competitors and their products may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. OUR INDUSTRY IS CHARACTERIZED BY RAPID CHANGE AND A FAILURE BY US TO REACT TO THESE CHANGES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid and substantial technological change. Alternative forms of medical treatment may render our technologies or product candidates of little or no value in the future. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt to this change and keep pace with new technological developments and emerging industry standards, and we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. WE ARE RELIANT ON KEY COLLABORATORS AND ON KEY EMPLOYEES, OUR SENIOR EXECUTIVES AND QUALIFIED MANAGERS, EMPLOYEES AND TECHNOLOGISTS, WHOSE DEPARTURES OR LOSS COULD LIMIT OUR GROWTH AND MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. The Corporation’s ability to develop the product will depend, to a great extent, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific personnel and to develop and maintain relationships with leading research institutions. Competition for such personnel and relationships is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain and attract qualified individuals currently or in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. The Corporation is highly dependent on the principal members of its management staff as well as its advisors and collaborators, the loss of whose services might impede the achievement of development objectives. The persons working with the Corporation are affected by a number of influences outside of the control of the Corporation. The loss of key employees and/or key collaborators may affect the speed and success of product development. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any officer, employee or collaborator. WE CONDUCT CERTAIN ELEMENTS OF OUR BUSINESS INTERNATIONALLY, AND THE DECISIONS OF SOVEREIGN GOVERNMENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We may conduct certain elements of our business internationally. We intend to, and may conduct clinical trials in other jurisdictions. Sovereign governments, including Canada, may establish laws or regulations that will be deleterious to our interests or that will affect our ability, as a foreign corporation, to obtain access to regulatory agencies in foreign jurisdictions. Governments have also, from time to time, established foreign exchange controls which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To date, neither our operations nor our financial conditions have been detrimentally affected in any material way due to laws or regulations of sovereign governments. 16 OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE SUBJECT TO CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS, AS OUR OPERATIONS ARE BASED LARGELY IN CANADA, WHILE SOME OF OUR EXPENSES ARE IN U.S. DOLLARS OR OTHER FOREIGN CURRENCIES. Our operations are based in Canada, while some of our expenses, in particular those related to manufacturing clinical products, are in U.S. dollars or currencies other than Canadian dollars. As at December 31, 2007, approximately 60% of our payments made in relation to accounts payable were made in Canadian dollars, approximately 40% were made in U.S. dollars. Currency fluctuations could, therefore, cause our costs to increase and revenues to decline. The exchange rates of the Canadian dollar to the U.S. dollar, the British pound and the European Euro have fluctuated in recent years. In circumstances where the Canadian dollar devalues against any or all of the U.S. dollar, the British pound or the European Euro, this may have an adverse effect on our costs incurred in either the U.S. or Europe (as applicable) but may have a positive effect on any revenues which we source from the U.S. or Europe (as applicable). The same principles apply in respect of our costs and revenues in other jurisdictions. In addition, if we manufacture some of our product candidates outside of Canada, this could expose us to potential cost increases resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. We do not currently have any plans to hedge the effect of currency fluctuations on our overseas expenditures. We manage our currency risks by settling foreign currency payables immediately upon recognition of a foreign currency liability. OUR INSURANCE MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT AND WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO LAWSUITS AND OTHER CLAIMS RELATED TO OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES IN CLINICAL STUDIES AND PRODUCT LIABILITY WHICH COULD INCREASE OUR EXPENSES, HARM OUR REPUTATION, AND KEEP US FROM GROWING OUR BUSINESS. The sale and use of human therapeutic products, including those product candidates we are developing, involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and adverse publicity. Clinical studies involve trials on humans. These studies create a risk of liability for side effects to participants resulting from an adverse reaction to the product candidates being tested or resulting from negligence or misconduct. While we currently maintain limited insurance related to our ongoing clinical trials, we cannot assure you that this insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Any claims might also exceed the amounts of this coverage. If we are unable to obtain our insurance at reasonable rates or otherwise protect ourselves against potential liability proceedings, we may be required to slow down any future development of product candidates or may even be prevented from developing the product candidates at all. Our obligation to pay indemnities or withdraw a product candidate from clinical trials following complaints could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also result in severe public relations problems that could seriously damage our reputation and business viability. In addition, certain drug retailers require minimum product liability insurance coverage as a condition of purchasing or accepting products for retail distribution. If any of our product candidates are successfully developed and approved for commercial sale, it is our intention to obtain adequate product liability insurance before the product candidates are marketed. Failure to satisfy these insurance requirements could impede our ability or that of any potential distributors of our product candidates to achieve broad retail distribution of these product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. WE USE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS THAT ARE HIGHLY REGULATED AND WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO POTENTIAL LIABILITY IN THE EVENT OF AN ACCIDENT INVOLVING THESE MATERIALS; OUR COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS COULD BE COSTLY IN THE FUTURE. Our discovery and development processes involve the controlled use of radioactive and hazardous materials. We are subject to Canadian federal, provincial, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident of this nature, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any liability of this kind could exceed our resources and, if so, we may have to cease operations. We have general liability insurance but it may not be sufficient to cover the cost of any injuries or other damage sustained in respect of these risks. Our coverage limitations under our insurance policies are described above under "OUR INSURANCE MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT AND WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO LAWSUITS AND OTHER CLAIMS RELATED TO OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES IN CLINICAL STUDIES AND PRODUCT LIABILITY WHICH COULD INCREASE OUR EXPENSES, HARM OUR REPUTATION, AND KEEP US FROM GROWING OUR BUSINESS". We cannot assure you that we will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future, or that our operations, business, or assets will not be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. 17 IT IS POSSIBLE THAT OUR CHIMIGEN™, T-ACT™ AND AIT™ TECHNOLOGIES HAVE ADVERSE SIDE EFFECTS OR CAUSE UNDESIRABLE REACTIONS ALTHOUGH WE ARE NOT AWARE OF ANY AT PRESENT. Chimigen™ Platform Since the Chimigen™ Vaccines incorporate a portion of a murine (foreign) antibody fragment, it is possible that patients receiving a Chimigen™ Vaccine could develop an anaphylactic adverse event similar to that discussed for the AIT™ platform below. This risk is mitigated somewhat by the completion of the 15 patient Phase I safety trial which showed the benign safety profile of the Chimigen™ Hepatitis Therapeutic Vaccine candidate CHB-111 (formerly called HepaVaxx B Vaccine). In addition, Chimigen™ Vaccines are designed to induce both humoral and cellular immune responses against the viral antigen epitope(s) contained in the vaccine. These immune responses can lead to the death of cells infected with the target virus. Patients chronically infected with hepatitis B or C viruses could suffer adverse events associated with the destruction of liver cells following immunization with a Chimigen™ Vaccine such as a Chimigen™ HBV Therapeutic Vaccine or Chimigen™ Hepatitis C Therapeutic Vaccine. This could be important in patients that have impaired liver function and could render a patient ineligible to receive a Chimigen™ Platform-based therapy. T-ACT™ Platform T-ACT™ technology is based on the induction of a specific platelet-dependent clot at a desired location. A potential risk of this technology is that a clot may break-up and localize to other locations in the body. This risk is mitigated by the limited Clinical Trial Phase I safety data on Occlusin™ 50 Injection showing the absence of serious adverse off-target thrombic events. Another potential risk is that with Occlusin™ product candidates, injected material could reach the systemic circulation through arterio-venous shunts in the target vasculature. These risks are mitigated using angiographic imaging of the target blood vessels prior to treatment. AIT™ Platform The AIT™ platform is based on the delivery of small amounts of a murine monoclonal antibody to patients with cancer. There is a risk that a patient may develop an anaphylactic adverse event upon exposure to this foreign antibody. This risk is tempered by preliminary studies with OvaRex® MAb in more than 700 ovarian cancer patients demonstrating a benign safety profile for this product candidate. All of these risks will be continuously monitored during the conduct of all phases of clinical trials and should any serious adverse event occur, this event will be reported to the appropriate regulatory agencies for immediate action. WE FACE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPORTING OUR PRODUCTS INTO MARKETS OUTSIDE OF CANADA. We may face difficulties importing our products into various jurisdictions as a result of, among other things, import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. There will be increased costs associated with importing/exporting our product. IF THERE ARE FEWER INDIVIDUALS IN OUR TARGET MARKETS THAN WE ESTIMATE, WE MAY NOT GENERATE SUFFICIENT REVENUES TO CONTINUE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES OR CONTINUE OPERATIONS. Our estimate of the patient population of our target markets is based on published studies as well as internal analyses and studies we have commissioned. If the results of these studies or our analysis of them do not accurately reflect the number of patients in our target markets, our assessment of the market may be wrong, making it difficult or impossible for us to meet our revenue goals. In addition, it is difficult to determine the portion of the patient population that might use our other product candidates. WE MAY NEED TO SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE THE SIZE OF OUR ORGANIZATION, AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES IN MANAGING GROWTH. We are currently a small company with 19 full time employees as of December 31, 2007. In order to continue our preclinical and clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates, we may need to increase our operations, including expanding our employee base. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our products and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our preclinical and clinical trials effectively; • undertake and manage the manufacturing of products effectively; • undertake and manage sales and marketing effectively; • integrate current and additional management, administrative, financial and sales and marketing personnel; 18 • develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • hire, retain and train additional qualified personnel. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON SHARES AS WE ARE A CANADIAN COMPANY, THERE MAY BE LIMITATIONS ON THE ENFORCEMENT OF CERTAIN CIVIL LIABILITIES AND JUDGMENTS OBTAINED IN THE UNITED STATES AGAINST US. We are amalgamated under the laws of the province of Alberta, Canada and our assets are located outside of the U.S.. Except for two of our directors, all of our directors and officers, as well as the expert named in this Annual Report, are residents of Canada, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside of the U.S.. As a result, it may not be possible for shareholders to enforce against us or them in the U.S. judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. Therefore, it may not be possible to enforce those actions against us, most of our directors and officers or the expert named in this Annual Report. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability, in original actions in Canadian courts, of liabilities based upon the U.S. Federal securities laws. WE HAVE NOT PAID, AND DO NOT INTEND TO PAY, ANY CASH DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON SHARES AND THEREFORE OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECEIVE A RETURN ON THEIR SHARES UNLESS THEY SELL THEM. We have never paid dividends on our common shares and we do not expect to have the ability to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. If we generate earnings in the future, we expect that they will be retained to finance further growth. Our Board of Directors will determine if and when dividends should be declared and paid in the future based on our financial position and other factors relevant at the particular time. Until we pay dividends, which we may never do, you will not be able to receive a return on your investment in our common shares unless you sell them, which you may only be able to do at less than the price you paid for them. THE MARKET PRICE AND TRADING VOLUME OF OUR COMMON SHARES MAY BE VOLATILE. The market price and trading volume of our common shares on the TSX and the AMEX, has experienced significant volatility and will likely continue to do so, which has been or could be in response to numerous factors, including: (a) macroeconomic factors such as a change in interest rates; (b) quarterly variations in operating results; (c) market conditions in the industry; (d) announcements of results of testing, technological innovations; (e) announcements by our customers or competitors, developments affecting government regulations, developments concerning proprietary rights, litigation, and public concerns as to the safety of our product candidates; (f) announcements of acquisitions; (g) general fluctuations in the stock market; and (h) revenues and results of operations below the expectations of the public market. Any of these factors could result in a sharp decline in the market price of our common shares. From January 1, 2005, to December 31, 2007, the trading price of our common shares has ranged from a low of CDN$0.06 per share to a high of CDN$1.62 per share on the TSX and from December 22, 2005, to December 31, 2007, it has ranged from U.S. $0.06 to U.S. $1.43 per share on the AMEX. During 2007 and the first three months of 2008, an average of approximately 113,390 and 59,186 of our shares traded per day on the TSX and AMEX respectively. On some trading days our shares have had limited trading volume. In addition, stock markets have occasionally experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Historically, the market prices for the securities of biotech companies, including ours, have been particularly affected by these market fluctuations, and these effects have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. 19 THE SIGNIFICANT COSTS THAT WE WILL INCUR AS A RESULT OF BEING A PUBLIC COMPANY IN THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We have listed our common shares on AMEX, and therefore we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company on both AMEX and the TSX. These expenses include, among others, costs with respect to preparing securities regulatory filings, costs in connection with compliance with the internal control audit provisions of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Canadian Securities Administrators Multilateral Instrument 52-109 “Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and Interim Filings” (“52-109”), costs in connection with other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and 52-109, AMEX listing fees and potentially higher director and officer insurance premiums. In addition, the requirements we face by being listed on AMEX will impose significant time demands on our management. Although it has not yet been a problem for us, becoming subject to the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as our executive officers. AS A FOREIGN PRIVATE ISSUER, WE ARE SUBJECT TO DIFFERENT U.S. SECURITIES LAWS AND RULES THAN A DOMESTIC ISSUER, WHICH MAY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, LIMIT THE INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO HOLDERS OF OUR SECURITIES. As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to requirements under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which are different from the requirements applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. For example, our officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and "short-swing" profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our common shares. The periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers and therefore there may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. public companies in the U.S. Also, although we are subject to Canadian regulation prohibiting selective disclosure, we are not required to comply with SEC Regulation FD, which may affect the timing of material disclosure regarding the Company. Item 