ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent in our business. Described below are risks that we currently believe could materially affect us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face significant competition from Google and Microsoft and may not be able to compete successfully with such powerful competitors. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business from other companies that provide solutions and services similar to ours. Currently, our primary competitors are DoubleClick and Atlas, a technology and service division of aQuantive. In March 2008, Google acquired DoubleClick and in May 2007, Microsoft acquired aQuantive. DoubleClick and Atlas offer solutions and services similar to ours and compete directly with us. While we continue to do business with Google and Microsoft as publishers and with Microsoft as an advertising agency, they may use their substantial financial and engineering resources to expand the DoubleClick and Atlas businesses and increase their ability to compete with us. Google and Microsoft have significantly greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Microsoft also has a longer operating history and more established relationships with customers. In addition, we believe that both Google and Microsoft have a greater ability to attract and retain customers due to numerous competitive advantages, including their ability to offer and provide their marketing and advertising customers with a significantly broader range of related solutions and services than us. Google or Microsoft may elect not to work with us or may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including through acquisitions of competitors or related businesses, research and development, and marketing for new customers more aggressively. Furthermore, Google or Microsoft could use campaign management solutions as a loss leader or may provide campaign management solutions or portions of such solutions without charge or below cost in order to encourage customers to use their other product offerings. If Google and Microsoft are successful in providing solutions or services that are better than ours, or in leveraging platforms more effectively than ours or that are perceived by customers as being more cost-effective, we could experience a significant decline in our customers’ use of our solutions and services. Such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense and increasing competition from other companies within our industry and may not be able to compete successfully with such competitors. In addition to Google and Microsoft, we face competition from other companies. Among our competitors are rich-media solutions companies (such as Pointroll, owned by Gannett, Eyewonder, which was acquired by Limelight Networks in December 2009, Unicast, which is owned by DG FastChannel, and Flashtalking) and ad serving companies (such as MediaPlex, a division of Value Click). We also may experience competition from companies that provide web analytics or web intelligence. Other companies are also developing campaign management solutions. Our competitors may develop services that are equal or superior to our services or that achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger client bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties and several of our competitors have combined or may combine in the future with larger companies with greater resources than ours. This growing trend of cooperative relationships and consolidation within our industry may result in fewer, but more powerful and aggressive, competitors that may engage in more extensive research and development, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees and customers than we are able to. They may also adopt more aggressive pricing policies and may even provide services similar to ours at no additional cost by bundling them with their other product and service offerings. Any increase in the level of competition from these, or any other competitor, is likely to result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share and a potential decline in our revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing or future competitors. If we fail to withstand competitive pressures and compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 13 We face competition from traditional media companies, and our services may not be included in the advertising budgets of large advertisers, which could harm our operating results. In addition to Internet companies, such as Google and Microsoft, rich-media solutions companies and ad serving companies, we face competition from companies that offer traditional media advertising opportunities, such as television, radio, cable and print. Most large advertisers have pre-determined advertising budgets, of which a very small portion is allocated to Internet advertising. We expect that large advertisers will continue to focus most of their advertising efforts on traditional media. Advertisers, including current and potential customers, may also find Internet advertising or marketing to be less effective than traditional media advertising or marketing methods for promoting their products and services, and therefore may decrease the portion of their budget allocated to Internet advertising or may shift their advertising away from the Internet. If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets with us to advertise online, or if our existing advertisers reduce the amount they spend on our solutions and services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The loss of a major customer, including Microsoft, or a reduction in any such customer’s Internet advertising or marketing budget could significantly reduce our revenue and profitability. Our top 20 paying customers, including our largest customer, Microsoft, accounted for 41%, 46% and 49% of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If one or more of these major customers decides not to continue purchasing services from us or significantly reduces its spending with us, we may not be able to make up the lost revenue. This could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive our revenues related to Microsoft, which totaled approximately 14%, 22% and 28% of our total revenues for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, in two primary ways. First, we are engaged by Microsoft’s internal advertising group to provide our solutions for specific campaigns, consistent with how we provide solutions to other customers. This accounted for $5.4 million, or 7%, of our revenues in 2010. In addition, we also provide solutions to advertising agency and advertiser customers that advertise on Microsoft online properties. However, while we are selected by the advertising agency or advertiser customer and not by Microsoft, in certain jurisdictions the fee for our services is paid to us by Microsoft as publisher. Because Microsoft is the one that pays our fee in those jurisdictions, we account for such revenues as coming from Microsoft (even though the decision to hire us is made by the advertising agency), and these revenues accounted for $5.7 million, or 7%, of our revenues in 2010. In other jurisdictions, such as the United Kingdom and Spain, we derive our revenues increasingly from agencies and customers who pay us directly for serving ads on Microsoft online properties, consistent with how they pay us for serving ads on other publisher properties; these revenues are not included in the figures above. Microsoft’s internal advertising group does not partner with us exclusively and has not committed to provide us a minimum level of business. We face significant competition for Microsoft’s business from other campaign management service providers, including Atlas, which was acquired by Microsoft in May 2007. Microsoft is continuing to expand its relationships with other campaign management service providers and, as a result, we cannot provide any assurance that we will succeed in maintaining or growing this portion of our revenues from Microsoft. In addition, we have reduced, and may continue to reduce the cost per thousand impressions (“CPM”) rate for ads of the same format. A decline in the volume of impressions or the CPM rate, whether generally or from one or more major customers (including Microsoft), could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Consolidation of Internet advertising networks, web portals, Internet search engine sites and web publishers may impair our ability to serve advertisements and to collect campaign data and could lead to a loss of significant customers. The growing trend of consolidation of Internet advertising networks, web portals, Internet search engine sites and web publishers, and increasing industry presence of a small number of large companies, such as Google, Microsoft and, most recently, Apple, with the announcement of its iAd platform for placing ads on Apple’s applications, could harm our business. We are currently able to serve, track and manage advertisements for our customers in a variety of networks and websites, which is a major benefit to our customers’ overall campaign management. Concentration of advertising networks could substantially impair our ability to serve advertisements if these networks or websites decide not to permit us to serve, track or manage advertisements on their websites, if they develop ad placement systems that are incompatible with our ad serving systems, or if they use their market power to force their customers to use certain vendors on their networks or websites. These networks or websites could also prohibit or limit our aggregation of advertising campaign data if they use technology that is not compatible with our technology. In addition, concentration of desirable advertising space in a small number of networks and websites could result in pricing pressures and diminish the value of our advertising campaign databases, as the value of these databases depends to some degree on the continuous aggregation of data from advertising campaigns on a variety of different advertising networks and websites. Additionally, major networks and publishers can terminate our ability to serve advertisements on their properties on short notice. If we are no longer able to serve, track and manage advertisements on a variety of networks and websites, our ability to service campaigns effectively and aggregate useful campaign data for our customers will be limited. 14 We may be adversely affected by cyclicality or an extended downturn in the United States, Europe or worldwide economy in or related to the industries we serve. Our revenues are generated primarily from providing online campaign management solutions and services to advertising agencies and advertisers across various formats and digital media channels. Demand for these services tends to be tied to economic cycles, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. We cannot assure you that advertising budgets and expenditures by advertising agencies and advertisers will not decline in any given period or that advertising spending will not be diverted to more traditional media or other online marketing products and services, which would lead to a decline in the demand for our campaign management solutions and services. For example, during the recent economic crisis, our revenue growth slowed due to weaker advertising spend and increased price pressure. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective customers’ spending priorities. As a result, our revenues may not increase or may decline significantly in any given period. Additionally, in 2010, due in large part to uncertainty in the European sovereign debt markets, the European economy has been under stress. An extended downturn in the European economy could adversely affect our results of operations. The Internet advertising or marketing market may deteriorate, or develop more slowly than expected, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the market for Internet advertising or marketing deteriorates, or develops more slowly than we expect, our business could suffer. Our future success is highly dependent on an increase in the use of the Internet, the commitment of advertisers and advertising agencies to the Internet as an advertising and marketing medium, the advertisers’ implementation of advertising campaigns and the willingness of current or potential customers to outsource their Internet advertising and marketing needs. The Internet advertising and marketing market is relatively new and rapidly evolving. As a result, demand and market acceptance for Internet advertising solutions and services is uncertain. If we do not continue to innovate and provide high quality solutions and services, as well as increase our revenues from more traditional solutions and services, we may not remain competitive, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on providing high quality solutions and services that make online campaign management easier and more efficient for our customers. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in online advertising and campaign management, and therefore the prices that we charge for existing services and solutions generally decline over time. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our technology and our existing solutions and services and introduce new high-quality solutions and services. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our solutions and services on a timely basis, and as a result are unable to provide quality solutions and services that run without complication or service interruptions, our customers may become dissatisfied and we may lose customers to our competitors and our reputation in the industry may suffer, making it difficult to attract new customers. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our customers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market. As online advertising and campaign management technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer solutions that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar or better than those offered by us. Customers will not continue to do business with us if our solutions do not deliver advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner, if the advertiser’s investment in advertising does not generate the desired results, or if our campaign management tools do not provide our customers with the help they need to manage their campaigns. If we are unable to meet these challenges or if we over expend our resources in our research and development of new solutions and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Recently, we began to emphasize our standard display ads, which generate lower revenue per impression than other formats but represent a large and profitable market, and which can help offset pricing pressure in other formats, such as rich media. If we are unable to grow our market share in this area significantly, our revenue could decrease. 15 Our business depends on a strong brand reputation, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the “MediaMind” brand is critical to expanding our base of customers and maintaining brand loyalty among customers, particularly in North America where brand perception can impact the competitive position in other markets worldwide, and that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the growing number of competitors providing similar services and solutions. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments in research and development and in the marketing of our solutions and services, and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain the “MediaMind” brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a technology leader and to continue to provide high quality solutions and services, which we may not do successfully. In 2009, we released our next generation integrated MediaMind campaign management platform, which all our customers now use. Any defect or error in this platform could materially adversely affect our brand reputation, customer relationships and results of operations. We operate in an emerging and rapidly evolving market. This makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. The online advertising industry is an immature industry that has undergone rapid and dramatic changes in its short history. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter in a new and rapidly evolving market. We may not be able to successfully address new risks and difficulties as they arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results fluctuate and, as a result, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future performance, and the failure to meet certain expectations with respect to our operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have historically fluctuated on a quarterly basis due to the seasonal nature of Internet advertising, and we expect this fluctuation to continue. Our fourth calendar quarter is typically the strongest, generating approximately 32%, 34% and 26% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. Our first quarter is often the weakest quarter, generating approximately 20%,18 % and 21% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in revenue in the fourth quarter is primarily the result of heavy advertising and online shopping during November and December due to the holidays. The drop in revenues in the first quarter is linked to the drop in online advertising and shopping that occurs at the beginning of each year. Revenue prediction could be impacted by unexpected demand for our services during a particular quarter and consequently impact that quarter. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues may also be significantly different from historical or projected rates. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on past results as an indication of future performance. If our operating results fail to meet expectations, the market price of our common stock could decline. New advertisement blocking technologies could limit or block the delivery or display of advertisements by our solutions, which could undermine the viability of our business. Advertisement blocking technologies, such as “filter” software programs, that can limit or block the delivery or display of advertisements delivered through our solutions are currently available for Internet users and are continuing to be developed. If these technologies become widespread, the commercial viability of the current Internet advertisement model may be undermined. As a result, ad-blocking technology could, in the future, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 More individuals are using non-personal computer devices to access the Internet, and the solutions developed for these devices may not be widely deployed. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers (“PCs”), including mobile devices, game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices make the use of our solutions and services through such devices difficult. If we are unable to deliver our solutions and services to a substantial number of alternative device users or if we are slow to develop solutions and technologies that are more compatible with non-PC communications devices, we will fail to capture a significant share of an increasingly important portion of the market. For instance, while we have developed Channel Connect for Mobile™ which provides customers with the ability to manage mobile ad campaigns with the MediaMind integrated platform, we cannot ensure widespread integration and acceptance of our solution. Our failure to deliver our solutions and services to a substantial number of alternative device users, or failure to develop in a timely manner solutions and technologies that are more compatible with non-PC communications devices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing network infrastructure to accommodate increased systems traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements. All of our solutions and services are delivered through our network. For our business to be successful, our network infrastructure must perform well and be reliable. We will need significantly more computing power as traffic within our systems increases and our solutions and services become more complex. We expect to continue spending significant amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment, and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased Internet traffic and roll out new solutions and services, many of which internal improvements were delayed during the recent financial crisis. This expansion will be expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. The costs associated with these necessary adjustments to our network infrastructure could harm our operating results. In addition, cost increases, loss of traffic or failure to accommodate new technologies or changing business requirements associated with our network infrastructure could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Problems with content delivery services, bandwidth providers, data centers or other third parties could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business relies significantly on third-party vendors, such as data centers, content delivery services and bandwidth providers. For example, we have entered into an agreement (as amended) to use a third-party, Akamai Technologies, Inc. (“Akamai”), to provide content delivery services to assist us in serving advertisements and have committed to a minimum revenue amount to Akamai during the calendar year and to using Akamai for at least 75% of our delivery needs, excluding China, provided Akamai meets our service requirements. The term of our agreement with Akamai is until May 31, 2012. Akamai may terminate this agreement if we materially breach the agreement and such breach continues unremedied for 30 days following Akamai’s notice to us. If Akamai or other third-party vendors fail to provide their services or if their services are no longer available to us for any reason and we are not immediately able to find replacement providers, our business, financial conditions or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, any disruption in network access or co-location services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of these third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use could significantly harm our business operations. If our service is disrupted, we may lose revenues directly related to the impressions we fail to serve and we may be obligated to compensate clients for their loss. Our reputation may also suffer in the event of a disruption. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may negatively impact our business and we are unable to predict the nature and extent of any such impact. We exercise very little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We license technologies from third-parties to facilitate aspects of our data center and connectivity operations including, among others, Internet traffic management services. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service and availability for such elements. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services could negatively impact our customer relationships and materially adversely affect our brand reputation and our business, financial condition or results of operations and expose us to liabilities to third parties. 17 Our data centers are vulnerable to natural disasters, terrorism and system failures that could significantly harm our business operations and lead to client dissatisfaction. In delivering our solutions, we are dependent on the operation of our data centers, which are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, war, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our system, and similar events. In particular, two of our data centers, in Tokyo, Japan and Los Angeles, California, are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes and others are located in areas with high risk of terrorist attacks, such as New York, New York. Our insurance policies have limited coverage in such cases and may not fully compensate us for any loss. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a terrorist attack, a provider’s decision to close a facility we are using without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service could reduce our revenues and profits, and our brand reputation could be damaged if customers believe our system is unreliable, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, system failures. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced two incidents in which our then DNS (Domain Name System, which translates human-readable computer hostnames into the relevant IP addresses) provider experienced global downtime of its system, which resulted in a failure to broadcast approximately 50% of the ads on our platform for up to six hours in each incident. Following these incidents, we replaced our DNS provider and have not since experienced any major system failures. Any unscheduled interruption in our service would put a burden on our entire organization and would result in an immediate loss of revenue. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. The steps we have taken to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our operating margin and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Our business may be adversely affected by malicious third-party software applications that interfere with the function of our technology. Our business may be adversely affected by malicious software applications that make changes to our users’ computers and interfere with our technology. These applications may attempt to change users’ experience in using our services, including altering or replacing advertisements delivered by our platform, changing configurations of our user interface, or otherwise interfering with our ability to connect with users. The interference may occur without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with our solutions. These software applications may be difficult or impossible to uninstall or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent other applications’ efforts to block or remove them. The ability to reach users on behalf of our customers and provide them with a superior experience is critical to our success. If our efforts to combat these malicious software applications are unsuccessful, our reputation may be harmed, and the communications with certain users on behalf of our customers could be impaired. This could result in a decline in usage of our solutions and corresponding revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to detect click-through fraud or other invalid clicks, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent and other invalid clicks on advertisements delivered by us from a variety of potential sources. Invalid clicks are clicks that we have determined are not intended by the user to link to the underlying content, such as inadvertent clicks on the same ad twice and clicks resulting from click fraud. Click fraud occurs when a user intentionally clicks on an ad displayed on a web site for a reason other than to view the underlying content. These types of fraudulent activities could harm our business and our brand. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the data that our solutions provide to our customers is inaccurate and the affected advertisers may lose confidence in our solutions to deliver a return on their investment. If advertisers become dissatisfied with our solutions, they may choose to do business with our competitors or reduce their Internet advertising spending, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced, and continue to experience, rapid growth in our operations and headcount, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our solutions and services could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and operating results. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve, among other things: · our information and communication systems to ensure that our offices around the world are well coordinated and that we can effectively communicate with our growing base of customers; · our systems of internal controls to ensure timely and accurate reporting of all of our operations; · our documentation of our information technology systems and our business processes for our advertising and billing systems; and · our information technology infrastructure to maintain the effectiveness of our systems. In order to enhance and improve these systems we will be required to make significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may have to make additional expenditures to address these issues, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to facilitate our sales growth and ability to deliver quality service worldwide, we have entered into strategic relationships with local selling agents in various countries. The termination of any of these strategic relationships could limit our ability to grow in those jurisdictions and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into strategic relationships with local selling agents in several countries and regions around the world, including Belgium, Dubai, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey to help expand our business internationally and intend to continue to do so as part of our strategy. These strategic relationships are important to help us better understand our international markets and local preferences in order to expand internationally. In order to define the terms of the relationships, we have entered into agreements with these entities pursuant to which they sell and distribute our solutions and services in their local jurisdiction, usually on an exclusive basis. Our agreements are typically at least one year in term, with automatic renewal in most cases, unless one party provides the other with prior written notice or if we and the local selling agent are unable to agree upon sales targets. However, a few agreements have longer terms of three to five years. We also generally agree that during the term of the contract and for 12 months afterward (although sometimes for shorter or longer periods) the local selling agent will not: (i) acquire, develop, market, sell or promote any product, service, system, platform or technology reasonably deemed to be competitive with our products, services, systems, platforms or technologies; (ii) engage in, have any financial interest or management position in, or solicit to anyone else to engage in, any business that competes directly with our business operations; or (iii) solicit any of our employees to work for an entity in which the local selling agent has a financial interest or management position. Upon the expiration of the non-compete provisions, the local selling agent will not be prevented from conducting business with our competitors and our competitors may benefit from the knowledge our local selling agent gained through our strategic relationship, although the local selling agent must surrender any records and files immediately upon termination of the agreement. We generally pay the local selling agent a commission based on sales they generate. In the year ended December 31, 2010, these strategic relationships generated approximately $15.9 million, or 20% of our revenues. If any of our local selling agents terminates its relationship with us, we could lose a significant portion, and in some cases all, of the revenue from that jurisdiction. If any of our strategic relationships were terminated or if our local selling agents failed to effectively aid in the growth of our business, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 19 Expansion into international markets is important to our long-term success, and our limited experience in operating our business in certain locations outside the United States increases the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful. Other than our Israeli research and development facility, we opened our first office outside the United States in 2002. Expansion into new international markets requires additional management attention and resources in order to tailor our solutions to the unique aspects of each country. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 75% of our employees located outside the United States. In the year ended December 31, 2010, we generated approximately 74% of our revenues from our operations outside the United States. In addition, we face the following additional risks associated with our expansion into locations outside the United States: · challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; · longer payment cycles in some countries; · credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; · legal and regulatory restrictions; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States; · political and economic instability and export restrictions; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · higher costs associated with doing business internationally. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our solutions, services and brand or permit competitors to more easily compete with us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our know-how and trade secrets related to the Internet advertising industry are an important aspect of our intellectual property rights. To protect our know-how and trade secrets, we customarily require our employees, customers, and third-party collaborators to execute confidentiality agreements or otherwise agree to keep our proprietary information confidential when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include clauses requiring our employees to assign to us all inventions and intellectual property rights they develop in the course of their employment and to agree not to disclose our confidential information. Despite our efforts, our know-how and trade secrets could be disclosed to third parties, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from such know-how or trade secrets. Because software is stored electronically and thus is highly portable, we attempt to reduce the portability of our software by physically protecting our servers through the use of closed networks and with physical security systems which prevent their external access. We also seek to minimize disclosure of our source code to customers or other third parties. We cannot be certain, however, that such measures will adequately prevent third parties from accessing our software, code or proprietary information. From time to time, we may discover that third parties are infringing or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. We are also aware of third parties that use trademarks or names similar to ours and there may be other third parties using trademarks or names similar to ours of whom we are unaware. Monitoring unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and protecting our intellectual property rights could be costly and time consuming. To protect our intellectual property rights, we may become involved in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays, materially disrupt the conduct of our business or adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We may choose not to pursue patents or other protection for innovations that later turn out to be important or we may choose not to enforce our intellectual property rights. Some foreign laws do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to adequately protect our trademarks, third parties may use our brand names or trademarks similar to ours in a manner that may cause confusion to our customers and confusion in the market, which could decrease the value of our brand. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties may eliminate any competitive advantage such intellectual property rights provide and harm our operating results. 20 We have a limited patent portfolio. We have no trademark registrations. While we plan to protect our intellectual property with, among other things, copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark protection, there can be no assurance that: · current or future United States or foreign registrations of our intellectual property rights will be approved; · our issued patents and trademarks will adequately protect the intellectual property rights we use in our business or that such patents and trademarks will not be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged by third parties; · third parties do not have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented products and practicing our own technology; · we will succeed in protecting our technology adequately in all key jurisdictions in which we or our competitors operate; or · others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. Third parties may claim we infringe on their intellectual property rights, forcing us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Any unfavorable outcome of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Companies in the Internet advertising industry often enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received and may in the future receive notices or inquiries from third parties regarding our services or the manner in which we conduct our business suggesting that we may be infringing or violating a patent, trademark or other intellectual property right. While we are not currently party to any infringement proceedings with respect to any patents or other intellectual property rights or aware of any third parties planning to pursue such litigation, there can be no assurance that third parties will not pursue claims against us in the future if they believe their intellectual property rights are being infringed. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. We may not be successful in defending any third-party infringement claims, and as a result of such claims we may have to pay substantial damages or stop conducting our business in the manner that is found to be in violation of such third party’s rights. Further, we may have to seek a license for such intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our solution and service offerings and may be unable to fulfill our obligations to our customers or to compete effectively. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our brand name, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our agreements with customers require us to indemnify such customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims against them. Pursuant to such agreements we may be required to defend such customers against certain claims which could cause us to incur additional costs. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could require that we cease offering the solutions or services that are the subject of such of a determination, procure or develop substitute solutions or services for such customers and/or pay any damages such customers incur as a result of such determination. 21 In addition, we use open source software in connection with our solutions and services. Some open source licenses require users who distribute software containing open source software to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary source code of the user. We monitor the use of open source software in our solutions and services to ensure that none is used in a manner that requires us to disclose or grant licenses for our proprietary source code; however, such use could inadvertently occur, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, in the past, faced claims seeking enforcement of open source license provisions and claims asserting ownership of open source software incorporated into their products. Defending such claims or being required to disclose or make available our proprietary source code pursuant to an open source license could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty regarding a variety of United States and foreign laws may expose us to liability and adversely affect our ability to offer our solutions and services. The laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their customers and users are currently unsettled both within the United States and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both United States and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy and other data protection claims, tort, unlawful activity, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the advertisements posted or the content generated by our customers. From time to time we have received notices from individuals who do not want to be exposed to advertisements delivered by us on behalf of our customers. If one of these complaints results in liability to us, it could be costly, encourage similar lawsuits, distract management and harm our reputation and possibly our business. In addition, increased attention focused on these issues and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively affect the growth of our business. There is also uncertainty regarding the application to us of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain advertisers’ businesses, including, for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, adult content, financial services, alcohol or firearms. Existing or new legislation could expose us to substantial liability, restrict our ability to deliver services to our customers and post ads for various industries, limit our ability to grow and cause us to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Several other federal laws could also expose us to liability and impose significant additional costs on us. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party web sites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of the Act. In addition, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restricts the ability of online services to collect information from minors and the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and any failure on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. Privacy concerns could lead to legislative and other limitations on our ability to collect usage data from Internet users, including limitations on our use of cookie or conversion tag technology and user profiling, which is crucial to our ability to provide our solutions and services to our customers. Our ability to conduct targeted advertising campaigns and compile data that we use to formulate campaign strategies for our customers depends on the use of “cookies” and “conversion tags” to track Internet users and their online behavior, which allows us to build anonymous user profiles and measure an advertising campaign’s effectiveness. A cookie is a small file of information stored on a user’s computer that allows us to recognize that user’s browser when we serve advertisements. A conversion tag functions similarly to a banner advertisement, except that the conversion tag is not visible. Our conversion tags may be placed on specific pages of clients of our customers’ or prospective customers’ websites. Government authorities inside the United States concerned with the privacy of internet users have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies, conversion tags or user profiling. Bills aimed at regulating the collection and use of personal data from Internet users are currently pending in U.S. Congress and many state legislatures. Attempts to regulate spyware may be drafted in such a way as to include technology like cookies and conversion tags in the definition of spyware, thereby creating restrictions that could reduce our ability to use them. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce have conducted hearings regarding user profiling, the collection of non-personally identifiable information and online privacy. 22 Our foreign operations may also be adversely affected by regulatory action outside the United States. For example, the European Union has adopted a directive addressing data privacy that limits the collection, disclosure and use of information regarding European Internet users. In addition, the European Union has enacted an electronic communications directive that imposes certain restrictions on the use of cookies and conversion tags and also places restrictions on the sending of unsolicited communications. Each European Union member country was required to enact legislation to comply with the provisions of the electronic communications directive by October 31, 2003 (though not all have done so). Germany has also enacted additional laws limiting the use of user profiling, and other countries, both in and out of the European Union, may impose similar limitations. Internet users may also directly limit or eliminate the placement of cookies on their computers by using third-party software that blocks cookies, or by disabling or restricting the cookie functions of their Internet browser software. Internet browser software upgrades may also result in limitations on the use of cookies or conversion tags. Technologies like the Platform for Privacy Preferences Project (P3P) may limit collection of cookie and conversion tag information. Individuals have also brought class action suits against companies related to the use of cookies and several companies, including companies in the Internet advertising industry, have had claims brought against them before the Federal Trade Commission regarding the collection and use of Internet user information. We may be subject to such suits in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to collect such information. If our ability to use cookies or conversion tags or to build user profiles were substantially restricted due to the foregoing, or for any other reason, we would have to generate and use other technology or methods that allow the gathering of user profile data in order to provide our services to our customers. This change in technology or methods could require significant reengineering time and resources, and may not be complete in time to avoid negative consequences to our business. In addition, alternative technology or methods might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If the use of cookies and conversion tags are prohibited and we are not able to efficiently and cost effectively create new technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, any compromise of our security that results in the release of internet users’ and/or our customers’ data could seriously limit the adoption of our solutions and services as well as harm our reputation and brand, expose us to liability and subject us to reporting obligations under various state laws, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personal information) and the number of countries where we operate has been increasing, and we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or our ability to grow. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key personnel and members of our senior management team. In particular, members of our senior management team are critical to the overall successful management of Media Mind as well as the development of our technology, culture and strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key personnel are employed at-will and we do not maintain key-person life insurance policies for any members of our senior management team (except for our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gal Trifon). The loss of key personnel or members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will also depend in a large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled managerial, research, selling and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. Competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense and we are aware that certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. As our business grows, it may be more difficult to recruit the additional number of highly skilled personnel we need in a timely manner. In addition, as we become a more mature company, we may find our recruiting efforts more challenging. The incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees provided by our option grants or by future arrangements, such as through cash bonuses, may not be as effective as in the past. If we do not succeed in attracting excellent personnel or retaining or motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 The options held by some of our senior management and key employees are fully vested. Consequently, these employees may not have sufficient financial incentive to stay with us. Some of our senior management personnel and other key employees have become substantially vested in their initial stock option grants. This includes our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Solutions Officer and Vice President, Global Sales. While we often grant additional stock options to management personnel and other key employees after their hire dates to provide additional incentives to remain employed by us, their initial grants are usually much larger than follow-on grants. Employees may be more likely to leave us after their initial option grants fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the option exercise price. If a significant number of employees or a group of key personnel or members of the management team no longer have an incentive to remain employed by us, they may leave and it may be difficult to replace these employees in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unsuccessful integration of any businesses in future acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences on our results of operations. We have limited experience acquiring companies and the companies we have acquired have all been small acquisitions of our selling agents in particular countries. We have in the past evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and, from time to time, we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions. Any of these transactions could be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including: · difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, services and personnel of acquired businesses; · ineffectiveness or incompatibility of acquired technologies or services; · additional financing required to make contingent payments; · unavailability of favorable financing for future acquisitions; · potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; · inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; · responsibility for liabilities of acquired businesses; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · inability to maintain our standards, controls, procedures and policies, which could affect our ability to receive an unqualified attestation from our independent accountants regarding management’s required assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting; and · increased fixed costs. Foreign acquisitions involve additional risks to those described above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Additionally, the anticipated benefit of many of our future acquisitions may not materialize. If we are unsuccessful in smoothly integrating an acquired company, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may need additional financing in the future, which we may be unable to obtain. We may need additional funds to finance our operations in the future, as well as to enhance our solutions and services, respond to competitive pressures or acquire complementary businesses or technologies. We may be unable to obtain financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses or unanticipated opportunities that require financial commitments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we currently expect. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, this may reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, and these securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Debt financing may also require us to comply with restrictive covenants that could impair our business and financial flexibility. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to enhance our solutions and services, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of business opportunities would be significantly limited, and we might need to significantly restrict our operations. 24 Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations. We conduct business in a large number of countries in the Americas, Europe, Asia, Australia, Latin America and the Middle East. Most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, the euro, the Australian dollar and the British pound sterling. Most of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, the new Israeli shekel, the British pound sterling and the euro. In the future, the percentage of our revenues earned in other currencies may increase as we further expand our sales internationally. Accordingly, we are subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations between such other currencies and the dollar. We currently do not use hedging instruments to mitigate foreign currency exchange risks except to hedge our expenses denominated in new Israeli shekels, and this hedging program, as well as any other hedging programs we may implement in the future to mitigate currency exchange rate risk, may not fully or adequately eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The amount of income tax that we pay could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates. In particular, we have endeavored to structure our activities in a manner so that most of our income is not subject to tax outside of Israel. Taxing authorities outside of Israel, however, could contend that a larger portion of such income is subject to tax in their jurisdictions, which may have higher tax rates than the rates applicable to such income in Israel. In addition, we have entered into transfer pricing arrangements that establish transfer prices for our intercompany operations. However, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on the applicable taxing authorities. No official authority in any country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. Accordingly, taxing authorities in any of these countries could challenge our transfer prices and require us to adjust them to reallocate our income. Any change to the allocation of our income as a result of review by such taxing authorities could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other uncertain tax liabilities requires significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The Israeli tax benefits that we currently receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes, possibly with a retroactive effect. Some of our investments in Israeli facilities have been granted “Approved Enterprise” status by the Investment Center in the Israeli Ministry of Industry Trade and Labor. In addition, we have elected to treat some of our investments in Israeli facilities as a “Privileged Enterprise” under the Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investment Law. Income that is attributable to an Approved Enterprise or Privileged Enterprise (if it meets the relevant qualification requirements of applicable law) is eligible for tax benefits under the Investment Law. The availability of the tax benefits is subject to certain requirements, including, among other things, making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment, financing a percentage of those investments with our capital contributions, filing certain reports with the Investment Center and complying with Israeli intellectual property laws. 25 Generally, income attributed to the Approved Enterprise and Privileged Enterprise is exempt from tax for a certain period, or the Exemption Period, subject to certain conditions and limitations, and may qualify for a reduced corporate tax rate of 10% to 25% for additional limited periods after the Exemption Period, depending on, among other things, the percentage of foreign investment in a company and the location of its facilities. If we do not meet the relevant eligibility requirements for the tax benefits discussed above, these tax benefits may be cancelled (possibly with retroactive effect) and our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. Under current law, in certain cases, starting 2011, the standard Israeli corporate tax rate may be lower than the rate applicable to income of Approved Enterprises and Privileged Enterprises after the Exemption Period. The standard corporate tax rate for Israeli companies in 2006 was 31 % of their taxable income. It declined to 29% in 2007, 27% in 2008, 26% in 2009, 25% in 2010 and is scheduled to decline to 24% in 2011, 23% in 2012, 22% in 2013, 21% in 2014, 20% in 2015 and 18% in 2016 and thereafter. In addition, we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received plus interest and penalties thereon. The tax benefits that our current Approved Enterprise and Privileged Enterprise programs receive may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase as we would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Finally, in the event of a distribution of a dividend from the above mentioned exempt income, the amount distributed will be subject to corporate tax at the rate applicable to the Approved Enterprise’s and Privileged Enterprise’s income during the Exemption Period absent exemption in addition to withholding tax. Distribution of dividends attributable to income that was not exempt as described above will be subject, in Israel, only to withholding tax. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. We completed our initial public offering on August 10, 2010. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”), requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. Furthermore, the need to continue to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management’s attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. In addition, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, starting with the second annual report that we file with the SEC, and will require in the same report, a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to comply with Section 404, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions, our ability to raise revenue could be impaired, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and our stock price could be adversely affected. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report outside the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims outside of the United States. The majority of our directors and executive officers are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or foreign court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States, Additionally, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in actions originally instituted outside of the United States. Foreign courts may refuse to hear a U.S. securities law claim because foreign courts may not be the most appropriate forums in which to bring such a claim. Even if a foreign court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. Further, if U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process, and certain matters of procedure would still be governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court. 26 We have significant operations in Israel, which may be adversely affected by acts of terrorism or major hostilities. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our Israeli operations, which includes our primary research and development facilities located in Ra’anana, Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or any acts of terrorism or other major hostilities in the Middle East could harm our Israeli operations and make it more difficult to conduct our operations in Israel. Any such effects may also not be covered by insurance. Our Israeli operations may not be successful if we are affected by these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as a whole. Additionally, in early 2011, riots and popular uprisings in various countries in the Middle East have led to severe political instability in those countries the effects of which we are unable to predict. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for you. Shares of our Common Stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. We cannot provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock or trading volume to fluctuate include: · fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; · changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; · failure of any of our solutions and services to achieve or maintain market acceptance; · failure to develop or deliver our solutions and services; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · success of competitive solutions and services; · changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; · sales of large blocks of our common stock; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant solutions and services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; · regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; · litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; · additions or departures of key personnel; · investors’ general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; 27 · changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; · our ability to forecast revenue and control our costs; and · changes in regulatory and other dynamics. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. On February 25, 2011, the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering expired and substantially all our stock became freely tradable (subject in the case of stock held by affilaites to volume and other restrictions imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act). As restrictions on resale have ended, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our common stock or other securities. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: · provisions relating to creating a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; · limitations on the removal of directors; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; · the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; · the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and · the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Generally, the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of stockholders. However, certain material amendments (including amendments with respect to provisions governing board composition, actions by written consent, and special meetings) require the approval of at least 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. Any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or at least 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. 28 The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our capital stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. The payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. The Company has no unresolved SEC staff comments. 