D. RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The growth and composition of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses From December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2013, the compounded annual growth rate of our aggregate gross loan portfolio was 33.7%. Our business strategy is to grow profitably while increasing the size of our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio has one segment with the highest level of risk: consumer loans. As of December 31, 2013, the risk index (ratio of allowance for loans losses over total loans) of this segment was 1.7% while other segments of our loan portfolio such as mortgage loans or commercial loans had lower risk indexes of 0.4% and 1.0%, respectively. Our consumer loans have increased since June 2011 in terms of aggregate amount, but our consumer loans have increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio only since July 2012. Our consumer loans have been increasing since May 2012 in terms of both aggregate amount, and as a percentage of our total loan portfolio as a result of (i) our acquisition of 91.9% equity interest in CorpBanca Colombia in May 2012, or the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition, and (ii) our acquisition of a 87.4% equity interest in Helm Bank in August 2013, or the Helm Bank Acquisition. As of December 31, 2013, consumer loans represented 12.6% of our total loan portfolio. The characteristics of our consumer loan portfolio that make it susceptible to loan losses are the absence of collateral and the risk of unemployment of our consumer borrowers. We believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of the date hereof to cover all known losses in our loan portfolio. The growth of our loan portfolio (particularly in the lower-middle to middle income consumer segments) may expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish proportionately higher levels of provisions for loan losses, which would offset the increased income that we can expect to receive as our loan portfolio grows. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same or similar rate Past performance of our loan portfolio may not be indicative of future performance. There can be no assurance that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same or similar rates as the growth rate that we historically experienced, particularly in light of the growth attributable to the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition and to the Helm Bank Acquisition. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean or Colombian economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. Economic turmoil could also materially and adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers, including a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment, which in turn could lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. Our allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover the future actual losses to our loan portfolio As of December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses was Ch$126,039 million (excluding allowances for loan losses on loans and receivable to banks), and the risk index was 1.0%. The amount of allowance for loan losses is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our customers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s and Colombia’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses require recalibration, which may lead to increased provision for loan losses. We believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of the date hereof for all known losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the 9 Table of Contents above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional allowances for loan losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our loan portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected As of December 31, 2013, our past due loans were Ch$64,091 million, which resulted in a past due loans to total loans ratio of 0.5%. As of December 31, 2013, our non-performing loans were Ch$141,667 million, which resulted in a non-performing to total loans ratio of 1.1%. We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems are free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. In addition, the quality of our loan portfolio may also deteriorate due to various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as the macroeconomic factors affecting the Chilean or Colombian economies. If such deterioration were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Our exposure to individuals and small-to-medium-sized companies could lead to higher levels of past due loans and subsequent loan losses The quality of our portfolio of loans to individuals and small-to-medium-sized companies, or SMEs, is dependent to a significant extent on prevailing economic conditions in Chile and Colombia. SMEs and lower-middle to middle income individuals are more likely to be more severely affected by adverse developments in the Chilean and Colombian economies than large corporations and higher income individuals. As a result, lending to SMEs and lower-middle to middle income individuals represents a relatively higher degree of risk than lending to other market segments. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals and SMEs. Our business results relating to our lower-income individual and SME customers are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean and Colombian economies, including increases in unemployment, than our business from large corporations and high-income individuals. For example, unemployment directly affects the capacity of individuals to obtain and repay consumer loans. Consequently, this could materially and adversely affect the liquidity, business and financial condition of our customers, which may in turn cause us to experience higher levels of past due loans, and result in higher allowances for loan losses, which could in turn materially affect our asset quality, results of operations and financial conditions. The value of any collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio From time to time, we require our borrowers to collateralize their loans with guarantees, pledges of particular assets or other security. The value of any collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting the Chilean and Colombian economies. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable to a negative economic climate and this may affect us as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgages loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional allowance for loan losses to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there are certain provisions under Chilean law No. 19,335 of 1994 that may affect the procedures for foreclosing on or liquidating residential mortgages if the residence in question has been declared as “family property” by a court because it is inhabited by the family of the mortgagor. If any party occupying the real estate files a petition with the court requesting that such real estate be declared family property, we may be delayed in foreclosing on such property. 10 Table of Contents There are also certain provisions of Colombian Law No. 1,676 that may affect our rights to foreclose on or liquidate movable assets pledged in favor of our Colombian subsidiaries. Colombian Law No. 1,676, issued on August 20, 2013, and applicable as of February 21, 2014, created a new registry for liens over movable assets. Creditors registering liens are granted priority based on the date of registration of the liens in the new registry. This “first in time, first in right” rule also applies to those liens granted before the enactment of the law. We are currently registering liens granted in our favor prior to February 21, 2014, however, there is a risk that third parties with conflicting liens may also try to obtain registration over the same assets, in which case the first party to register a lien will have priority over any others. In addition, given the recent enactment of this law, there is uncertainty as to how the law will be interpreted and applied, including how movable assets underlying the securities will be valuated by the registry. We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy Chilean banks are required by the Chilean General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of required allowance for loan losses and deductions, and basic capital of at least 3% of total assets, net of required allowance for loan losses. For the purposes of maintaining a high solvency classification from the SBIF and continued compliance with the SBIF’s capital requirements on us, our intention is to have the highest classification from the SBIF. As of December 31, 2013, the ratio of our Bank for International Settlements, or BIS, capital-weighted assets ratio was 13.2%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: • the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business; • the failure to increase our capital correspondingly; • losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality; • declines in the value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio; • goodwill and minority interest; • changes in accounting rules; and • changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. As provided in article 68 of the Chilean General Banking Law, if we fail at any time to meet the legal requirements relating to the maintenance of regulatory capital (which is comprised of effective net worth and basic capital, as both concepts are defined in such provision), we must comply with such legal requirements within a period of sixty days. For each day we fail to comply with such legal requirements, we may be subject to a daily penalty equal to one thousandth of the deficit of the effective net worth or basic capital, as the case may be. Our Colombian operations may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy Capital adequacy requirements for Colombian financial institutions (as set forth in Decree 1771 of 2012, as amended) are based on applicable Basel Committee standards. The regulations establish four categories of assets, which are each assigned different risk weights, and require that a credit institution’s Technical Capital (as defined below) be at least 9% of that institution’s total risk-weighted assets. Technical Capital for the purposes of the regulations consists of the sum of Tier One Capital (basic capital) and Tier Two Capital (additional capital), collectively, Technical Capital. As of December 31, 2013, the consolidated ratio for our Colombian operations (calculated as BIS capital to risk-weighted assets) was 12%. Certain developments could affect the ability of our Colombian operations to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to each, including: • the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our Colombian operations business; • the failure to increase CorpBanca Colombia’s or Helm Bank’s capital; • losses resulting from a deterioration in CorpBanca Colombia’s or Helm Bank’s asset quality; • declines in the value of CorpBanca Colombia’s or Helm Bank’s available-for-sale investment portfolio; • goodwill and minority interest; • changes in accounting rules; and • changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Colombia. 11 Table of Contents For purposes of obtaining from the Colombian Superintendency of Finance the authorization to acquire Helm Bank, CorpBanca Colombia committed to carry out the necessary activities to maintain a solvency ratio of 11.8% for the months following the CorpBanca Colombia and Helm Bank merger. If our Colombian operations fail to comply with the capital adequacy requirements for Colombian financial institutions, we may be subject to certain penalties and sanctions that are graduated depending on the level of compliance failure, and which may include an administrative take-over by the government with the purpose of administration or liquidation. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets In the past few years, the global financial system has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility and general widening of spreads. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the second half of 2008, and many countries, including the United States, in past years have been operating in a recessionary period. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, have also been experiencing significant difficulties. In recent years, there have been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). In Chile and Colombia, the global economic recession in 2008 and 2009 caused an increase in unemployment, a decrease in consumer spending, a decrease in real estate prices and a general decline in economic activity. Nevertheless, the gross domestic product, or GDP, grew in Chile 6% in 2011, 5.6% in 2012 and 4.1% in 2013, accompanied by a high demand for labor and asset price increases. The Colombian GDP grew 6.6% in 2011, 4% in 2012 and 4.3% in 2013, accompanied by a high demand for labor and asset price increases. However, the continued economic and sovereign debt crisis in some industrialized economies, particularly in Europe, and the continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a negative impact on the performance of the Chilean economy, the Colombian economy and a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect the results of our operations The Chilean and Colombian markets for financial services are highly competitive. In Chile, we compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, Banco del Estado de Chile, a state owned bank, credit unions and public social security funds (cajas de compensación) that offer consumer and other loans to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower-middle to middle income segments of the Chilean population and the SME segments have become the target markets of several banks, and competition in these segments is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments have declined. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from the lower-middle to middle income consumer market segments and for small and medium-sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, our net interest margins may not be maintained at their current levels. We also face competition from non-bank and non-finance competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards, consumer loans, insurance brokerage, department stores, large supermarket chains and other financial intermediaries who are able to provide large companies with access to the capital markets as an alternative to bank loans and sell other financial products. Non-bank competition from large department stores has become increasingly significant in the consumer lending sector as many leading department store owners and operators began offering consumer credit either alone or in conjunction with various financial institutions. Since 1998, three new private sector banks affiliated with Chile’s largest department stores have initiated operations mainly as consumer and medium-sized corporate niche banks. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to loans and credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products and 12 Table of Contents mortgage loans. Banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds in Chile, and the insurance sales business has seen rapid growth. Nevertheless, non-banking competition, especially department stores, may be able to engage in some types of advertising and promotion in which, by virtue of Chilean banking rules and regulations, we are prohibited from engaging. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to consolidation in the industry. Further consolidation in the industry, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate. An increase in the prevalence of this method of financing could reduce our market share for corporate financing and adversely affect our results of operations. Insurance companies as well as residential mortgage loan managers (Administradoras de Mutuos Hipotecarios) are allowed to participate and compete with banks in the residential mortgage and credit card businesses, further increasing competition in our industry. Furthermore, under the Chilean General Banking Law, representative offices of non-Chilean banks are now allowed to promote the credit products and services of their headquarters and banks, insurance companies, retailers and other financial institutions are required to inform their customers of the all-in costs of the financial services on standardized terms allowing their customers to compare the cost of the products offered by them, all of which have increased, and may further increase, competition in our industry and, thus, have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. In Colombia, we operate in a highly competitive environment and increased competitive conditions are to be expected in the jurisdictions where we operate. Intensified merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better capitalized and more geographically diverse firms that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. Our ability to maintain our competitive position in Colombia depends mainly on our ability to fulfill new customers’ needs through the development of new products and services and offer adequate services and strengthen our customer bases through cross-selling. Our Colombian operations will be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain efficient service strategies, or overcome certain delays or difficulties in the transition of the integration of the operational services and activities of CorpBanca Colombia and Helm Bank. In addition, our efforts to offer new services and products may not succeed if product or market opportunities develop more slowly than expected or if the profitability of opportunities is undermined by competitive pressures. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile and Colombia In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the SBIF, Dicom (a privately owned company and Chilean nationwide credit data base), the Colombian Superintendency of Finance, DataCredito (a privately owned company) and CIFIN, a division of the Colombian Banking and Financial Entities Association (Asociación Bancaria y de Entidades Financieras de Colombia), and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile and Colombia, our assessment of the credit risks associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources, which may not be complete or accurate. As a result, asset quality may be materially adversely affected. Our risk management system may not be sufficient to avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations In addition to granting loans, part of our financial portfolio consists of trading transactions by our treasury division. Accordingly, changes in interest rates, securities prices, currency exchange rates and other indices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial success depends on, among other factors, our ability to accurately balance the risks we take and the returns we gain from our transactions. While we focus on the identification, analysis, management and control of our risks, both in favorable and adverse market conditions, there can be no assurance that our risk management efforts will prevent us from experiencing material losses. In particular, we may experience losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if: • we are not capable of identifying all of the risks that may affect our portfolio; 13 Table of Contents • our risk analysis or our measures taken in response to such risks are inadequate or inaccurate; • the markets move in an unexpected and adverse way with respect to speed, direction, strength or other aspects and our ability to manage risks in such a scenario is restricted; • our clients are affected by unforeseen events resulting in their default or losses in an amount higher than those considered in our risk analyses; or • collateral pledged in our favor is insufficient to cover our clients’ obligations to us if they default. Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and a material adverse effect on our revenues Time deposits and other term deposits are our primary sources of funding, which represented 46.6% of our liabilities as of December 31, 2013. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities Government economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso or the Colombian peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our securities, since the equity value of CorpBanca is hedged against our base currency Chilean peso. The Chilean peso and the Colombian peso have been subject to significant fluctuations in their value against the U.S. Dollar in the past and could be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. As of December 31, 2010, the Chilean peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 7.8% and the Colombian peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 6.4%, each as compared to 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 11% and the Colombian peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 1.5%, each as compared to 2010. As of December 31, 2012, the Chilean peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 7.7% and the Colombian peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 9%, each as compared to 2011. As of December 31, 2013, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 9.9% and the Colombian peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 8.8%, each as compared to 2012. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the Chilean peso, the Colombian peso and the U.S. dollar despite our internal policy and Chilean and Colombian regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate gaps. Entering into forward exchange transactions enables us to reduce the negative impact of material gaps between the balances of our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, the gap between foreign currency denominated assets and foreign currency denominated liabilities, excluding derivatives, was Ch$(279,942) million, Ch$(444,175), Ch$(23,560) million, Ch$241,832 million and Ch$434,942 million, respectively. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate gaps. Regulations that limit such gaps may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate gaps could increase our exposure to the devaluation of the Chilean peso and the Colombian peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service our foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate gaps, the economic policies of the Chilean or the Colombian governments and any future fluctuations of the Chilean peso or the Colombian peso against the dollar could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Trading transactions in Chile of the common shares underlying our ADSs are denominated in Chilean pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our common shares are received in Chilean pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments 14 Table of Contents in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will be reduced. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. Our business is highly dependent on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade information technology systems effectively or on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business in Colombia is highly dependent on a technology service agreement with Banco Santander, S.A. We entered into a technology service agreement with Banco Santander, S.A. in connection with the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition. The technology service agreement expires in June 2015; however, we have the option to extend the term of such agreement for an additional year. Our business in Colombia is highly dependent on the service and support of Banco Santander, S.A. provided to us pursuant to the technology service agreement. If Banco Santander, S.A. is unable to service and support our business in Colombia or if we are unable to integrate our information technology systems into our business in Colombia after the expiration of the technology service agreement, then such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Helm Bank is expected to be covered by this agreement following the merger of Helm Bank will be with and into CorpBanca Colombia. Our inability to attract, develop or retain qualified employees, managers and executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Our ability to maintain our competitive position and implement our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees, managers and executives. Following the pending Itaú-CorpBanca Merger (as defined below), Itaú Unibanco and Inversiones Corpgroup Interhold Limitada (our holding company), together with certain affiliates of the latter, or CorpGroup, are expected to sign a shareholders agreement to determine aspects related to corporate governance, dividend policy, transfer of shares and liquidity among others, or the Itaú-CorpBanca Shareholders Agreement. The Itaú-CorpBanca Shareholders Agreement provides that Itaú Unibanco and CorpGroup will collectively be entitled to appoint the majority of the members of our board of directors that CorpGroup or Itaú Unibanco are then entitled to appoint (which collectively will be a majority of our board of directors). Additionally, Itaú Unibanco will be able to appoint the chief executive officer or CEO. Our success is also dependent on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain talented, diverse employees. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel either before or after the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger. The loss of certain members of our senior management or our inability to retain and attract additional personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents A worsening of labor relations in Chile or Colombia could impact our business As of December 31, 2013, on a consolidated basis we had 3,750 employees in Chile (including 26 at our New York Branch), of which 50% were unionized and 3,548 employees in Colombia, of which 15.8% were unionized. CorpBanca’s current labor agreement with four of its unions in Chile will expire on December 19, 2014. CorpBanca Colombia’s current labor agreement with its fifteen unions in Colombia was subscribed on September 14, 2013 and expires on August 31, 2015. Less than 1% of Helm Bank’s employees are unionized. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally enjoyed good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not result in increased employee or labor costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may experience operational problems or errors We, like all large financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurances that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing measures may not prevent third parties from using us as a conduit for those activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We believe that we are in compliance with applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing laws and regulations and we have adopted various policies and procedures, including internal controls and “know-your customer” procedures, aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, because we also rely on our correspondent banks having their own appropriate anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing procedures, we use what we believe are commercially reasonable procedures for monitoring our correspondent banks. However, these measures, procedures and compliance may not be entirely effective in preventing third parties from using us (and our correspondent banks) as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing without our (and our correspondent banks’) knowledge or consent. If we were to be associated with money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing, our reputation could be harmed and we could become subject to fines, sanctions or legal enforcement (including being added to any “blacklists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with us), which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Banking regulations in Chile may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We are subject to regulation by the SBIF. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank of Chile with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. During the Chilean financial crisis of 1982 and 1983, the Central Bank of Chile and the SBIF strictly controlled the funding, lending and general business matters of the banking industry in Chile. Pursuant to the Chilean General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the SBIF, engage in certain businesses in addition to commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and their financial strength. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. The Chilean General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean financial system, which is a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the SBIF to deny new banking licenses. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the change of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. 16 Table of Contents Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. However, since June 1, 2002, the Central Bank of Chile has allowed banks to pay interest on checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. CorpBanca must maintain a capital adequacy index of at least 10% calculated pursuant to the guidelines issued by the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions. This index must be complied with both on the closing date of an acquisition, as well as for at least a year thereafter (in the case of the most recent Helm Bank Acquisition, until August 6, 2014). In line with the future adoption of Basel III regulations in Chile, the SBIF has maintained a proposal to increase the minimum effective BIS capital adequacy ratio from the current 8% to 10.5%. This change requires an amendment to the Chilean General Banking Law by Congress, and when adopted, could require us to inject additional capital in our business in the future. The SBIF has not issued any timetable for adoption of Basel III but has issued guidance to Chilean banks regarding the adoption of Basel III for 2019. Although we have not failed in the past to comply with our capital maintenance obligations, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, numerous novel regulatory proposals have been discussed or proposed. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Banking regulations in Colombia may restrict our Colombian operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our Colombian operations are subject to regulation by the Central Bank of Colombia, the Colombian Ministry of Finance, or Ministry of Finance, the Colombian Superintendency of Finance, the Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio), or SIC, and the Self-Regulatory Organization (Autorregulador del Mercado de Valores-AMV), or the SRO. Colombian regulation has evolved from an absolute separation of financial activities between different and separate entities (adopted back in the 1980’s) to an intermediate scheme of multibanking approach, This new scheme was introduced by Law No. 1,328 of 2009, know as the Financial Reform. Pursuant to Article 7 of the Financial Organic Statute (Estatuto Orgánico del Sistema Financiero as amended by the above-mentioned law), Colombian banks may engage in commercial banking business and in certain businesses in addition to traditional commercial banking, including leasing activities. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including our operations in Colombia. Capital adequacy requirements for Colombian financial institutions, and CorpBanca Colombia’s commitment to maintain a solvency ratio of 11.8% for the following months after the CorpBanca Colombia and Helm Bank merger occurred could require us to inject further capital into our Colombian operations, or to capitalize dividends, or restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, which may lower the return of our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Colombian accounting principles are moving toward the implementation of IFRS standards. As a result, financial institutions and other supervised entities are required to switch to IFRS on January 1, 2015. Therefore during 2014 we have been preparing financial statements based on both current Colombian GAAP and on IFRS for comparative purposes in the future. Such switch to IFRS may adversely impact our capacity to distribute dividends and the profits of our Colombian operations. 17 Table of Contents As a result of the recent global financial crisis and worldwide trends, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Colombia, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, numerous novel regulatory proposals have been discussed or proposed. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business in Colombia, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We are subject to regulatory inspections and examinations We are also subject to various inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean and Colombian regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to protect personal information could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations, and offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. We could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services, including cybersecurity breaches. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintain our clients’ confidence in our online services. In certain cases, we are responsible for protecting customers’ proprietary information as well as their accounts with us. We have security measures and processes in place to defend against these cybersecurity risks 18 Table of Contents but these cyber attacks are rapidly evolving (including computer viruses, malicious code, phishing or other information security breaches), and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks, which could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information. Individuals may also seek to intentionally disrupt our online banking services or compromise the confidentiality of customer information with criminal intent. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, as well as systems and processes that are designed to recognize and assist in preventing security breaches, failure to protect against or mitigate breaches of security or other unauthorized disclosures could constitute a breach of privacy or other laws, subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages, adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services, result the loss of customer relationships, negatively impact our reputation, and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which may result in reinvestment of assets on less profitable terms Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a borrower or issuer to pay a debt obligation prior to maturity. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases, which reduces the weighted average lives of our earning assets and adversely affects our operating results. Prepayment risk also has an adverse impact on our residential mortgage portfolio, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of this portfolio, which may result in a mismatch in funding or in reinvestment at lower yields. Prepayment risk is inherent to our commercial activity and an increase in prepayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exposure to government debt could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We invest in debt securities issued by the Chilean and Colombian governments, the Central Bank of Chile and the Ministry of Finance that, for the most part, are short-term and highly liquid instruments. As of December 31, 2013, 2.1% of our total assets comprised of securities issued by the Chilean government and 3.1% of our total assets comprised securities issued by foreign government, mostly by the Colombian government. If the Chilean or Colombian governments default on the timely payment of such securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. A further downgrade of CorpBanca’s counterparty credit rating by international or domestic credit rating agencies could materially and adversely affect our debt credit rating for domestic and international debt, our business, our future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities On August 23, 2013, following the Helm Bank Acquisition, Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services, or Standard and Poor’s, downgraded CorpBanca’s long-term issuer credit rating from BBB+ to BBB. On December 6, 2013, Moody’s Investors Service, or Moody’s, downgraded CorpBanca’s global, local and foreign currency deposit and debt ratings to Baa3 from Baa2, following placement by Moody’s on review for downgrade on August 30, 2013 in connection with our association with our affiliate, SMU S.A., or SMU. Following the announcement of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger, Standard & Poor´s placed CorpBanca BBB/A-2 ratings on CreditWatch Developing and Moody’s changed our rating review direction to ‘possible upgrade’, from ‘review for downgrade’, on our long and short term ratings, on January 14 and January 31, 2014, respectively. Any adverse revision to CorpBanca’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international and domestic rating agencies may adversely affect our debt ratings, and, as a result, our cost of funding, including interest rates paid on our deposits and securities. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Maturity of exchange rate and maturity between our loan portfolio and our sources of funds could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our capacity to expand our loan business We are exposed to maturity mismatches between our loans and sources of funding. The majority of our loan portfolio consists of fixed interest rate loans, and the yield from our loans depends on our ability to balance our 19 Table of Contents cost of funding with the interest rates we charge to our borrowers. An increase in market interest rates in Chile or Colombia could increase our cost of funding, especially the cost of time deposits, and could reduce the spread we earn on our loans, materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any mismatch between the maturity of our loan portfolio and our sources of funding would magnify the effect of any imbalance in interest rates, also representing a liquidity risk if we fail to obtain funding on an ongoing basis. In addition, since part of our funding comes from securities denominated in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies that we issue abroad, any devaluation of the Chilean or Colombian peso against the U.S. dollar or such other foreign currencies could increase the cost of funding in relation to these securities. An increase in our total cost of funds for any of these reasons could result in an increase in the interest rates on our loans, which could, as a result, affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to attract new customers and expand our loan business. We are subject to financial and operational risks associated with derivative transactions We enter into derivative transactions primarily to deliver a service to our clients, hedging and, on a limited basis, trading purposes. These transactions are subject to market, liquidity, counterparty (the risk of insolvency or other inability of a counterparty to perform its obligations to us) and operational risks. Market practices and documentation for derivative transactions in Chile and Colombia may differ from those in other countries. For example, documentation may not incorporate terms and conditions of derivatives transactions as commonly understood in other countries. In addition, the execution and performance of these transactions depends on our ability to develop adequate control and administration systems and to hire and retain qualified personnel. Moreover, our ability to monitor and analyze these transactions depends on our information technology systems. These factors may further increase risks associated with derivative transactions and, if they are not adequately controlled, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our level of insurance might not be sufficient to fully cover all liabilities that may arise in the course of our business and insurance coverage might not be available in the future We maintain insurance for losses resulting from fire, explosions, floods and electrical shorts and outages at our various buildings and facilities. We also have civil liability insurance covering material and physical losses and damages that may be suffered by third parties. We cannot assure you that our level of insurance is sufficient to fully cover all liabilities that may arise in the course of our business or that insurance will continue to be available in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance on comparable terms in the future. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we incur liabilities that are not fully covered by our insurance policies. The occurrence of natural disasters in the regions where we operate could impair our ability to conduct business effectively and could adversely affect our results of operations We are exposed to the risk of natural disasters such as earthquakes or tsunamis as well as floods, mudslides and volcanic eruptions in the regions where we operate. In the event of a natural disaster, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business in the affected region, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, if a significant number of our local employees and managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. A natural disaster, such as the earthquake and tsunami that affected Chile in 2010, could damage some of our branches and ATMs, forcing us to close damaged facilities or locations, increased recovery costs as well as cause economic harm to our clients. A natural disaster or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on local businesses in the affected region and could result in substantial volatility or adverse harm in our business, financial condition and results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year. 20 Table of Contents Future economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits and other term deposits represented 56.3%, 56.1%, 59%, 61.4% and 46.6% of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Large-denominations in time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. Deceleration of economic growth in Asia, Europe the United States and other developed nations may have an adverse effect on the Chilean economy, on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our securities We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States and other developed nations, including the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the economic crisis in Europe. If these nations’ economic environments deteriorate, the economies in Chile and Colombia could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the market value of our securities. RISKS RELATING TO CHILE, COLOMBIA AND OTHER COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE The banking regulatory and capital markets environment in Chile and Colombia is continually evolving and may change Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the financial system are continually evolving and changing. In 2007, new regulations governing the Chilean capital markets, called Reforma al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2), were approved. These regulations, among other things, modified certain provisions set forth in Chilean General Banking Law. Under new legislation, the limit on the amount that a bank is allowed to grant as an unsecured loan to a single individual or entity was increased to 10% of its regulatory capital (and up to 30% of its regulatory capital if any loans granted in excess of the 10% are secured by certain collateral). Previously, these limits were set at 5% and 2.5%, respectively. This limit is set at 5% for certain persons related to the bank (or 25% if loans in excess of 5% are secured by certain collateral). Although any such increase may increase our lending activity, it may also increase the risks associated with the growth of our loan portfolio and increase competition as the number of banks that can compete in the corporate banking sector increases. In June 2010, additional regulations governing the Chilean capital markets, called Reforma al Mercado de Capitales III (also known as MK3), were approved. MK3, among other things, allows non-Chilean banks with representative offices in Chile to directly promote the credit products and services of their parent companies. Previously, these representative offices could only act as intermediaries between their parent companies and local companies. This change has increased competition by increasing the number of banks that can compete directly in Chile. In December 2011, the Consumer Protection Act (Ley de Derechos de los Consumidores) was amended to include provisions applicable to financial products and services. Pursuant to this amendment, any agreement for financial products or services between a bank and a customer must expressly provide for certain customer rights and protections, including but not limited to (i) a detailed breakdown of all direct and indirect charges, fees, costs and tariffs that form part of the price of the relevant product or service, including any such charges, fees, costs and tariffs that are part of other products or services simultaneously contracted; (ii) the events of default that may trigger a bank’s right of early termination, a reasonable cure period and the manner by which consumers are to be informed of any such early termination; and (iii) a customer’s right of early termination in its sole and absolute discretion (subject to such customer’s payment in full all of its obligations under the agreement, including any costs arising from such early termination). In addition, the amendment sets forth certain additional customer rights and protections, including, but not limited to, the right to (1) receive information about the total cost of any financial product or service, (2) be informed of the bank’s reasons for rejecting a customer application for a financial product 21 Table of Contents or service; and (3) be informed of any non-discretionary conditions to which a customer’s access to a particular financial product or services are subject. This amendment, also established a new dispute resolution mechanism, which provides for both mediation and arbitration. In addition, in March 2012, a bill aimed at giving additional enforcement powers to the SERNAC (Chile’s Consumer Protection Agency) regarding financial services became effective and created the SERNAC Financiero, a specific consumer protection agency for the financial industry. The SERNAC Financiero has powers to supervise and regulate Bank probducts and services. The creation of the SERNAC Financiero has also resulted in additional scrutiny regarding prices and contracts for financial products and services, making it more difficult to raise prices and increasing competition among bank and non-bank competitors. The Consumer Protection Act has had an adverse effect on the Chilean finance industry, particularly the banking industry as a consequence of the loss of flexibility in the determination of price and product distribution strategies in the retail banking segment. In February 2012, Law No. 20,575 (Ley DICOM) was enacted in order to restrict the use of private and personal economic, financial, banking and commercial information of customers set forth in Law No. 19,628 on Protection of Privacy, which is supplemented by Ley DICOM. This new law (i) provides that this data can only be shared with established businesses and companies that engage in business and credit risk assessment for use in connection with such risk assessments; (ii) prohibits the request of this data in connection with recruitment for employment, admission to preschool, grade school or higher education, medical attention or nomination for a public position; (iii) requires distributors of personal information, if requested by the owners of such data, for purposes other than credit process review, to certify solely overdue obligations of such person; (iv) prohibits the sharing or reporting of information related to any obligations that have been renegotiated, novated or remain outstanding in certain forms as well as debts owed to toll road operators; (v) requires the distributors of economic, financial, banking and business information to maintain a registry of persons who request such information, including the reason, date and time of the request; (vi) allows the owners of any such requested information to access the registry, free of charge, every four months, to verify such information for the last 12 months; (vii) imposes on the distributor or other responsible party of such information the obligation to demonstrate compliance with Ley DICOM and (viii) obligates the deletion of unpaid obligations reported through December 31, 2011, provided that the total debt registered by such debtor is for an amount less than Ch$2,500,000, for capital, excluding interest, adjustments or any other item. Ley DICOM has not had a significant impact on our business or our commercial practices because of our anticipation to the changes it introduced, to a large extent, by adjusting the information base and the relevant parameters used in our credit risk-assessment models for granting loans. Colombian laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the financial system are also continually evolving and changing. In 2013, a new regulation regarding liens over movable assets was enacted (Colombian Law No. 1,676) which may affect our rights to foreclose on or liquidate movable assets pledged in favor of our Colombian subsidiaries. This new law created a new registry for liens over movable assets. Creditors registering liens are granted priority based on the date of registration of the liens in the new registry. This “first in time, first in right” rule also applies to those liens granted before the enactment of the law. We are currently registering liens granted in our favor prior to the enactment of this law, however, there is a risk that third parties with conflicting liens may also try to obtain registration over the same assets, in which case the first party to register a lien will have priority over any others. In addition, given the recent enactment of this law, there is uncertainty as to how the law will be interpreted and applied, including how movable assets underlying the securities will be valuated by the registry. In 2014, the Colombian government presented to Congress an initiative to create a new type of financial institution that will have the sole purpose of offering electronic deposits and payments in order to promote financial inclusion. If the law is enacted, this could create a new competitive environment in Colombia. As of the date of this Annual Report, an initiative regarding banking fees is being discussed in Congress, and has been approved in its second debate out of four needed for it to become a law. If the law is enacted in its current form banks would be required to cease collecting transactional and service fees from those individuals whose income is equal or under two legal monthly minimum wage, or SMMLV provided that this benefit would only apply to one savings account per individual. The likelihood of this initiative becoming a law is, however, uncertain given that there have been two similar unsuccessful initiatives discussed in Congress in recent years and the two pending debates would have to be completed before June 2014. 22 Table of Contents Any of the regulatory changes listed above could have an adverse effect on our operations in Chile or Colombia respectively. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the SBIF unaudited consolidated and unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any related footnote disclosure, on a monthly basis. As of January 2008, the statements have to be prepared in accordance with Circular No. 3,410 “Compendium of Accounting Standards”, or the Compendium, and the rules of the SBIF. The SBIF also makes summary financial information available the first Thursday of the subsequent month after each monthly closing. Although Chilean banks are required to apply IFRS as issued by the IASB as of January 1, 2009, certain exceptions introduced by the SBIF prevent banks from achieving full convergence, for example loan loss provisions, assets received in lieu of payment among others. In those situations which are not addressed by the guidance issued by the SBIF, institutions must follow the generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Association of Chilean Accountants, which coincide with IFRS as issued by the IASB. However, our consolidated annual financial statements as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2013 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS in order to comply with SEC requirements. Our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 incorporate the financial statements of CorpBanca, its subsidiaries (except for CorpBanca Colombia and Helm Bank) and the New York Branch. Our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 incorporate the financial statements of CorpBanca, its subsidiaries (except Helm Bank) and the New York Branch. Our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013 incorporate the financial statements of CorpBanca, all of its subsidiaries and the New York Branch. Our consolidated financial statements include the necessary adjustments and reclassifications to the incorporated financial statements of each of CorpBanca’s subsidiaries and the New York Branch to bring their accounting policies and valuation criteria into line with those applied by the Bank, in accordance with IFRS—IASB. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open, or publicly listed, companies such as ours, have as one of their principal objectives promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some important respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the United States securities markets. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect our investors’ investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank of Chile eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank of Chile with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. See “Item 10. Additional Information—D. Exchange Controls” for a discussion of the types of information required to be provided. Owners of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be converted into U.S. dollars and distributed net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean laws or regulations, the depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors in our ADSs may receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. 23 Table of Contents Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends could be imposed in the future and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may adversely affect our access to funding Chilean regulations impose restrictions on the share of assets that a Chilean pension fund management company (Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones, or AFP) may allocate: (i) per fund (considering all sub-funds within an AFP (A, B, C, D or E)), to deposits in checking accounts and term deposit accounts and in debt securities issued by a single banking institution (or guaranteed by such bank), investments not exceeding the value of a multiple set forth by the Central Bank of Chile considering such bank’s equity (patrimonio), which shall fluctuate between 0.5 and 1.5 in accordance with article 47 of the Law Decree (Decreto de Ley) 3,500 (and were 1.0 as of December 31, 2013); (ii) per type of sub-fund, to shares, deposits and debt securities of a single banking institution (or guaranteed by such bank), investments not exceeding 9% of the value of the relevant sub-fund; and (iii) per fund (considering all sub-funds), to a single banking institution, investments not exceeding 2.5% of the value of such banking institution subscribed shares with a maximum limit equal to 2.5% of the value of such AFP with respect to banks in which a shareholder owns directly or indirectly more than 50% and less than 65% of its voting capital. Additionally, each fund managed by an AFP is permitted to make deposits with a bank for an amount not to exceed the equivalent of such bank’s equity. If the exposure of a pension fund managed by an AFP to a single bank exceeds such limit for investments in securities, the AFP for such pension fund is required to reduce the fund’s exposure below the limit within three years. As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate exposure of AFPs to us was Ch$878,519 million or 1.02% of their total assets. If the exposure of any AFP to us exceeds the regulatory limit, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. In 2007, MK2 (Chilean Capital Markets Laws) was approved, relaxing the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2013, the maximum limit on making investments abroad was 80% (per fund, with different limits per each sub-fund). As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. As of December 31, 2013, 3.0% of our time deposits were from AFPs. In the case of banks, each fund managed by an AFP is permitted to make deposits with such bank for an amount, that considering jointly deposits and debt securities issued (or guaranteed by the relevant bank), shall not exceed the equivalent of such bank’s equity. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased regulation of the financial services industry in Chile or Colombia could increase our costs and result in lower profits As a result of the recent financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile or Colombia including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, novel regulatory proposals are abound in the current environment. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. Although we currently comply with the minimum regulatory capital ratio required under the Chilean or Colombian banking regulations, no assurance can be given that in the future we will need to inject additional capital to our business if such regulation is amended. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, our ratio of net interest income to total operating income was 57.8%, 57.5% and 65.1%, respectively. Changes in market interest rates in Chile or Colombia could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities leading to a reduction in our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank of Chile and Colombia, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile and Colombia, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day benchmark rate reached a high of 5.6% and a low of 3.6% in 2011, a high of 5.2% and a low of 4.8% in 2012 and a high of 5.1% and a low of 4.8% in 2013. On the other hand, the Colombian government does not issue short-term bonds of 30, 60 or 90 days as the Chilean government does. Instead, every month a committee of the Central Bank of Colombia determines the benchmark rate in order to achieve a specific goal of inflation. Yields on the Colombian benchmark rate reached a high of 4.75% and a low of 3% for 2011, a high of 5.25% and a low of 4.25% for 2012 and a high of 4.0% and a low of 3.25% for 2013. As of December 31, 2011, 2012, 2013, we had Ch$843,250.0 million, Ch$1,112,435 million and Ch$889,087 million, respectively, in financial investments available-for-sale. In the current global economic climate, there is a greater degree of uncertainty and unpredictability in the policy decisions and the setting of interest rates by the Central Bank of Chile and Central Bank of Colombia and, as a result, any volatility in interest rates could adversely affect us, including our future financial performance and the market value of our securities. We could be subject to increase in income tax rate. On April 1, 2014, the Chilean Government submitted to Congress for its approval a bill which contains important amendments to the Chilean tax system, or Tax Reform. Among the proposed changes, the Tax Reform contemplates an increase of the First Category Tax rate, from 20% to 25%, on a progressive basis. In addition, the Tax Reform contains several other amendments to Chilean tax laws including, among others: • taxation mechanism of profits attributable to shareholders or owners to be changed from distributed cash basis to accrued basis; • elimination of the Value Added Tax, or VAT, exemption for construction of houses up to UF2,000; • increase in stamp tax from 0.4% to 0.8%; • Decree Law No. 600 to be eliminated no later than 2016, which could adversely affect the Foreign Investment Statute; • charge VAT tax on all real estate transactions, which could affect the value of our repossessed mortgage properties which today are not charged VAT when sold; • lowering of higher individual income tax bracket from 40% to 35%; and • new general anti-avoidance rules, which would strengthen the powers of the Chilean IRS (Servicio de Impuestos Internos) to review and asses certain transactions. The Tax Reform is expected to be subject to an intense debate in Congress, and some of its provisions may be eliminated or amended substantially. We are also subject to income tax in Colombia at a rate of 34% with respect to our activities in that country. Beginning in fiscal year 2013, the Colombian corporate income tax rate was reduced from 33% to 25%, and a new income tax called the “CREE” with a tax rate of 9% (8% beginning in fiscal year 2016) was imposed. The CREE reduced the payroll taxes in Colombia from 9% to 4% (social security contributions) on workers who earn less than 10 SMMLV (approximately US$3,059 for 2013) in May 2013 and eliminated the 8.5% employer’s health contribution in January 2014 for this same group of employees. 25 Table of Contents The taxable base of the CREE is similar to the taxable base of the Colombian income tax. However, it does not allow the subtraction of tax credits and certain tax exemptions permitted for the Colombian income tax. As a result, the CREE could potentially raise our effective rate of tax with respect to our activities in Colombia. Any future increases in income tax rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Colombian tax heaven regulation could adversely affect our business and financial results Decree 2193 of 2013 designates 44 jurisdictions as tax havens for Colombian tax purposes. It also excludes temporarily seven countries, including Panama, while the Colombian government negotiates tax information exchange agreements with each of them. If Panama and Colombia do not sign a tax information exchange agreement before August 2014, Panama would be considered as a tax haven under Colombian tax regulations. As a result, the clients of our Colombian subsidiaries in Panama who are residents in such jurisdiction would be subject to the following regulations: (i) higher withholding tax rates including a higher withholding rates over financial yields derived from investments in the Colombian securities market), (ii) the Colombian transfer pricing regime and its reporting duties, (iii) an assumption for Colombian authorities of residency for the purposes of qualifying a conduct as abusive under tax regulations, (iv) the disallowance of payments made to residents or entities located in tax havens as costs or deduction, unless the respective withholding tax has been applied and (v) other additional information disclosure requirements. Colombian new tax reform could adversely affect our business and financial results There have been several discussions about whether or not an additional tax reform will be required in the near future in Colombia, specifically to address the cost related to the post-conflict obligations that the Colombian government may acquire as a consequence of the peace conversations that are taking place in Havana, Cuba with Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, or FARC, guerrilla’s and victims repair, as well as judicial decisions on the amount and liability of Colombian Government to restore and indemnify the conflict victims from guerrilla and paramilitaries. If such new taxes or higher rates in income tax are implemented, or the equity (patrimony) tax is made permanent, those decisions may adversely affect our ability to maintain our profitability trends and the dividends that may be distributed to our shareholders. Any additional taxes resulting from changes to tax regulations or the interpretation thereof in Chile or Colombia could adversely affect our consolidated results Uncertainty relating to tax legislation in Chile and Colombia poses a constant risk to CorpBanca. Changes in legislation, regulation and jurisprudence can affect tax burdens by increasing tax rates and fees, creating new taxes, limiting stated expenses and deductions, and eliminating incentives and non-taxed income. In addition, the Colombian government has a significant fiscal deficit that may result in future tax increases. Additional tax regulations could be implemented that could require us to make additional tax payments, negatively affecting our respective results of operations and cash flow. In addition, national or local taxing authorities may not interpret tax regulations in the same way that we do. Differing interpretations could result in future tax litigation and associated costs. Any downgrading of Chile’s or Colombia’s debt credit rating for domestic and international debt by international credit rating agencies may also affect our ratings, our business, our future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities Any adverse revisions to Chile’s or Colombia’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies may adversely affect our ratings, and, as a result, our cost of funding, including interest rates paid on our deposits and securities. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. 26 Table of Contents Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile, Colombia and other emerging markets Substantially all of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile or Colombia. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile and Colombia. The Chilean and Colombian economies have been influenced, to varying degrees, by economic conditions in other emerging market countries. Changes in Chilean or Colombian economic growth in the future or future developments in or affecting the Chilean or Colombian economies, respectively, including consequences of economic difficulties in emerging and developed markets, including some of our neighbor countries, or a deceleration in the economic growth of Asian or other developed nations to which Chile and Colombia export a majority of their respective goods, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. According to data published by the Central Bank of Chile, the Chilean economy grew by 6% in 2011, 5.6% in 2012 and 4.1% in 2013. According to data published by the Central Bank of Colombia, the Colombian economy grew by 6.6% in 2011, 4% in 2012 and 4.3% in 2013. Historically, lower economic growth has adversely affected the overall asset quality of the Colombian banking system and CorpBanca Colombia’s loan portfolio. Our results of operations and financial condition could also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean or Colombian governments, which have each exercised and continue to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Starting in September 2008, the economic and financial crisis in the United States and Europe sparked a series of financial institution failures across the globe. This resulted in a liquidity crisis and a reduction in growth of the global economy as financial institutions tightened risk policies and reduced lending to banks, corporations and individuals. During 2009, the economies of the United States and some European countries contracted, which, in turn, impacted the Chilean and Colombian economies. Although there have recently been signs of recovery in the global economy, Chile and Colombia, this recovery may be fragile and also may reflect temporary benefits from government stimulus programs that may not be sustained. The ability of certain countries, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy and companies in those countries and in the Euro zone to repay debt obligations remains uncertain. The effect on consumer confidence of any actual or perceived deterioration in the Chilean or Colombian economies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations could also be affected by regulatory changes in administrative practices, changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean or Colombian governments or other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile or Colombia, over which we have no control. Inflation and government measures to curb inflation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Although Chilean and Colombian inflation have been low in recent years, Chile and Colombia have experienced high inflation in the double-digit levels in the past. Such high levels of inflation in Chile or Colombia could adversely affect the Chilean and Colombian economies and have an adverse effect on our results of operations if such inflation is not accompanied by a matching devaluation of the local currency. We cannot make any assurances that Chilean or Colombian inflation will not revert to prior levels in the future. 27 Table of Contents The following table shows the annual rate of inflation during the last five years as measured by changes in the Chilean and Colombian consumer price index, or CPI, and as reported by the: (i) Chilean National Institute of Statistics and (ii) Colombian National Administrative Department of Statistics: Year Chilean UF Variation(1) Chilean Inflation (CPI) Colombian Inflation (CPI) (in percentages) 2009 (2.4) (1.4) 2.0 2010 2.4 3.0 3.2 2011 3.9 4.4 3.7 2012 2.5 1.5 2.4 2013 2.1 3.0 1.9 Source: Chilean National Institute of Statistics / Colombian National Administrative Department of Statistics. (1) The Unidad de Fomento is an inflation index currency unit. The only difference between the UF variation and the CPI is that UF Variation reflects the CPI with one month lag. In 2009, economic activity slowed significantly in Chile, resulting in 1.4% deflation, and increased in Colombia, resulting in 2% inflation. In 2010, economic growth increased in Chile, ending the year with 3% inflation, in part supported by additional government and private sector spending to finance the reconstruction work required to restore Chile’s productive capacity and financial aid to the areas affected by the 2010 earthquake and tsunami, and grew in Colombia, resulting in 3.2% inflation. During 2010, GDP grew by 5.8% in Chile and grew by 4% in Colombia. During 2011, GDP grew by 6% and the inflation rate increased by 4.4% in Chile and GDP grew by 6.6% and the inflation rate increased by 3.7% in Colombia. During 2012, GDP grew by 5.6% and the inflation rate increased by 1.5% in Chile and GDP grew by 4% and the inflation rate increased by 2.4% in Colombia. During 2013, GDP grew by 4.1% and the inflation rate increased by 3.0% in Chile and GDP grew by 4.3% and the inflation rate increased by 1.9% in Colombia. The Central Bank of Chile decreased the interbank rate from 5% in 2012 to 4.5% in 2013 so that the projected inflation could be placed in the 3.0% horizon defined by the Central Bank of Chile. In Chile, the average interbank rate was 4.9% in 2013. The Central Bank of Colombia decreased the interbank rate from 4.25% in 2012 to 3.25% in 2013 in response to a decrease in inflation expectations driven by decreased economic activity. In Colombia, the average interbank rate was 3.35% in 2013. High levels of inflation or deflation in Chile or Colombia could adversely affect the Chilean or Colombian economies and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in addressing the challenges and risks presented by our operations in countries outside Chile or Colombia We now operate a banking business in Colombia through CorpBanca Colombia and Helm Bank and in Panamá through subsidiaries of Helm Bank. Our operations are focused on retail banking, as well as wholesale and commercial banking. CorpBanca Colombia provides a broad range of commercial and retail banking services to its customers, operating principally in the cities of Bogotá, Medellín, Cali, Bucaramanga and Barranquilla. Helm Bank focuses on providing financing and deposit services to small-to-medium-sized companies and individuals with medium-high income levels, operating principally in Bogota, Cali, Medellin, Cartagena and Barranquilla. We have limited experience conducting credit card and consumer finance businesses in countries outside Chile. Accordingly, we may not be successful in managing credit card and consumer finance operations outside of our traditional domestic market in Chile. We may face delays in payments by customers and higher delinquency rates in any market we enter into, which could necessitate higher provisions for loan losses and, consequently, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Colombia has experienced internal security issues that have had or could have in the future a negative effect on the Colombian economy Colombia has experienced internal security issues, primarily due to the activities of guerrilla groups such as the FARC, paramilitary groups and drug cartels. In remote regions of the country with minimal governmental presence, these groups have exerted influence over the local population and funded their activities by protecting, and rendering services to drug traffickers. Despite the Colombian government’s “democratic security” program and current peace conversations with FARC taking place in Havana, Cuba, which have reduced guerrilla and criminal activity, particularly in the form of terrorism attacks, homicides, kidnappings and extortion, such activity persists in Colombia, and possible escalation of such activity and the effects associated with them have had and may have in the future a negative impact on the Colombian economy and on our operations in Colombia, including our customers, employees, results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Tensions with Venezuela and Ecuador may affect the Colombian economy and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition Diplomatic relations with Venezuela and Ecuador, two of Colombia’s main trading partners, have from time to time been tense and affected by events surrounding the Colombian armed forces combat of the FARC throughout Colombia, particularly on Colombia’s borders with Venezuela and Ecuador. Any further deterioration in relations with Venezuela and Ecuador may result in the closing of borders, the imposition of trade barriers or a breakdown of diplomatic ties, any of which could have a negative impact on Colombia’s trade balance, economy and general security situation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Venezuelan political events may affect CorpBanca Colombia’s operations Venezuela held elections on April 14, 2013 following the death of President Hugo Chavez. Although Nicolas Maduro has been sworn in as President of Venezuela, the opposition parties have contested the result on the basis of alleged voting irregularities. As a result, Venezuelan political conditions remain uncertain. We cannot provide any assurances that political developments in Venezuela, over which CorpBanca Colombia has no control, will not have an adverse effect on CorpBanca Colombia’s business, financial condition or results. In February 2014, Venezuela experienced political unrest and demonstrations across the country that sparked a series of violent incidents that resulted in several deaths and numerous injuries. As of the date hereof, anti-government demonstrations in Venezuela caused numerous injuries and protestors continue to hold demonstrations calling for new elections. These demonstrations in recent months in Venezuela, which has escalated in violence, resulted in some of the country’s worst political violence, historically, with numerous deaths and injuries, as well as destruction of property. It is unknown how long it may take for the current situation to be resolved and what effects the current demonstrations may have on Venezuela. Government policies and actions, and judicial decisions in Colombia could significantly affect the local economy and, as a result, our operations in Colombia and our results of operations and financial condition Our operations in Colombia and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in Colombian governmental policies and actions, and judicial decisions, involving a broad range of matters, including interest rates, exchange rates, exchange controls, inflation rates, taxation, banking and pension fund regulations and other political or economic developments affecting Colombia. The Colombian government has historically exercised substantial influence over the economy, and its policies are likely to continue to have a significant effect on Colombian companies. The president of Colombia has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions relating to the economy, and may adopt policies that could negatively affect our business in Colombia. Future governmental policies and actions, or judicial decisions, could adversely impact the results of operations or financial condition of our business in Colombia. An increase in constitutional collective actions (acciones populares), class actions (acciones de grupo) and other similar legal actions involving claims for significant monetary awards against financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations Under the Colombian Constitution, individuals may initiate constitutional collective or class actions to protect their collective or class rights, respectively. Colombian financial institutions, including Helm Bank and CorpBanca Colombia, have experienced a substantial increase in the aggregate number of these actions. The great majority of such actions have been related to fees, financial services and interest rates, and their outcome is uncertain. Pursuant to Law No. 1,425 of 2010, monetary awards for plaintiffs in constitutional collective actions (acciones populares) were eliminated as of January 1, 2011. Nevertheless, individuals continue to have the right to initiate constitutional or class actions against Helm Bank and CorpBanca Colombia. 29 Table of Contents Future restrictions on interest rates or banking fees could materially and adversely affect our profitability and financial results The Colombian Commerce Code limits the amount of interest that may be charged in commercial transactions. In the future, regulations could impose limitations regarding interest rates or fees we charge. Any such limitations could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. In the past, there have been disputes in Colombia among merchants, payment services and banks regarding interchange fees. Although such disputes have been resolved, the Colombian Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio), or the SIC, may initiate new investigations relating to the interchange fees. This possibility may lead to additional decreases in such fees, which in turn could adversely our operations in Colombia and our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, pursuant to article 62 of Law No. 1,430 of 2010, the Colombian Congress granted the government power and authority to establish and define criteria and formulas applicable to the calculation of banking fees and charges and the authority to define maximum limits to banking fees and charges. On December 20, 2011, the Colombian Government used the authority granted by Law No. 1,430 of 2010 and established in Decree 4,809 of 2011 a cap on the fees banks can charge on withdrawals done from ATMs outside their own networks. Under Colombian regulation, banks are prohibited from charging prepayment penalties or fees on loans except when the outstanding amount of a loan is more than the equivalent of 880 SMMLV (approximately US$350,000). If the outstanding amount of a loan is more than the equivalent of 880 SMMLV, prepayment penalties or fees may be charged but only when expressly contemplated under the governing loan agreement. Further limits or regulations regarding banking fees, and uncertainties with respect thereto could have a negative effect on CorpBanca Colombia and our results of operations and financial condition. As of the date of this Annual Report, an initiative regarding banking fees is being discussed in the Colombian Congress, and has been approved in its second debate out of four needed for it to become a law. If the law is enacted in its current form, banks would be required to cease collecting transactional and service fees from those individuals whose income is equal or under two SMMLV, provided that this benefit would only apply to one savings account per individual. The likelihood of this initiative becoming a law is, however, uncertain given that there have been two similar unsuccessful initiatives discussed in Congress in recent years and the two pending debates would have to be completed before June 2014. Historically, Colombian banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. We pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insolvency law in Chile and Colombia may limit our monetary collection and ability to enforce our rights A new Bankruptcy Act was published in Chile in the Official Gazette on January 9, 2014 and will come into effect on October 9, 2014. Under such act, monetary collection and enforcement of rights by a creditor may face limitations such as those arising from the Insolvency Protection (as defined below) recognized by such act. For more information on these limitations please see Item 4—Information on the Company Risks relating to Chile, Colombia and other countries in which we operate—Recent Regulatory Developments in Chile. On June 12, 2012, the Congress of Colombia enacted Law 1,564 of 2012, which provides insolvency protection for non-merchant individuals. Under the insolvency regulation, which came into effect on October 1, 2012, once a non-merchant individual has ceased paying its debts, such individual can initiate a voluntary insolvency proceeding before a notary public or mediator to reach an agreement with its creditors. The terms of any agreement reached with a group (two or more) of creditors that represent more than 50% of the total amount of the claims will be mandatorily applicable to all relevant creditors. As a result of these agreements CorpBanca Colombia may not be able to recover the total amount of its claims. The increased debtor protections contemplated in the law, including an automatic stay for a maximum of 90 days, could also make it more difficult for CorpBanca Colombia to enforce debt and other monetary obligations, which could have an adverse impact on CorpBanca Colombia and our results of operations and financial condition. Given the recent enactment of Law 1,564 and its regulatory Decree 2,667, it is currently unclear how this law will be interpreted, including how strictly the requirement that the debtor be a non-merchant will be enforced. In addition, an initiative is currently being discussed by the Congress of Colombia, pursuant to which the voluntary insolvency proceeding set forth by Law 1,564 would be at no cost to the debtor, which, if approved, would presumably increase the number of voluntary insolvency proceedings filed by non-merchant debtors. 30 Table of Contents The Central Bank of Colombia may impose requirements on our (and other Colombian residents’) ability to obtain loans in foreign currency The Central Bank of Colombia may impose certain mandatory deposit requirements in connection with foreign currency-denominated loans obtained by Colombian residents, including Helm Bank and CorpBanca Colombia. Although no mandatory deposit requirement is currently in effect, a mandatory deposit requirement was set at 40% in 2008 after the Colombian peso appreciated against foreign currencies. We cannot predict or control future actions by the Central Bank of Colombia in respect of such deposit requirements, which may involve the establishment of a different mandatory deposit percentage. The use of such measures by the Central Bank of Colombia may be a disincentive for Helm Bank and CorpBanca Colombia and their respective clients to obtain loans denominated in a foreign currency. Our operations in Colombia may be unable to collect on collateral or guarantees securing loans, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition Helm Bank and CorpBanca Colombia make loans that are secured by collateral, including real estate and other assets that are generally located in Colombia. The value of collateral may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond their control, including, for example, economic and political conditions in the country. An economic slowdown may lead to a downturn in the Colombian real estate market, which may, in turn, result in declines in the value of real estate securing loans to levels below the principal balances of these loans. Any decline in the value of the collateral securing loans may result in reduced recoveries from collateral realization and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Helm Bank and CorpBanca Colombia also make loans on the basis of guarantees from relatives, affiliates or associated persons of borrowers. To the extent that guarantors encounter financial difficulties due to economic conditions, personal or business circumstances, or otherwise, the ability of Helm Bank or CorpBanca Colombia to enforce such guarantees may be impaired. In addition, Helm Bank and CorpBanca Colombia may face difficulties in enforcing their rights as a secured creditor against borrowers, collateral or guarantees. In particular, timing delays and procedural problems in realizing against collateral, as well as a debtor-protective judicial interpretations of the law, may make it difficult to foreclose on collateral, realize against guarantees or enforce judgments in Helm Bank’s or CorpBanca Colombia’s favor, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There are also certain provisions of Colombian Law No. 1,676 that may affect our rights to foreclose on or liquidate movable assets pledged in favor of our Colombian subsidiaries. Colombian Law No. 1,676, issued on August 20, 2013, and applicable as from February 21, 2014, created a new registry for liens over movable assets. Creditors registering liens are granted priority based on the date of registration of the liens in the new registry. This “first in time, first in right” rule also applies to those liens granted before the enactement of the law. We are currently registering liens granted in our favor prior to February 21, 2014, however, there is a risk that third parties with conflicting liens may also try to obtain registration over the same assets, in which case the first party to register a lien will have priority over any others. In addition, given the recent enactment of this law, there is uncertainty as to how the law will be interpreted and applied, including how movable assets underlying the securities will be valuated by the registry. Our operations in Colombia may face legal and other challenges to maximizing revenue from credit card fees and other fees from customers Helm Bank’s and CorpBanca Colombia’s credit card businesses face risks relating to the pricing of fees and commissions charged to merchants (merchant discounts) and the pricing of bank interchange fees charged by issuer banks to acquiring banks. Banks and card processors in Colombia have been subject to administrative investigations regarding the fees and commissions that are charged to the merchants by the acquiring banks and in respect to the banking interchange fees. 31 Table of Contents In the past, the SIC has conducted investigations on the practices of Asociación Gremial de Instituciones Financieras Credibanco (Visa franchisee in Colombia) and Redeban Multicolor S.A. (MasterCard franchisee in Colombia), the entities chosen by most Colombian banks to manage the credit card system in Colombia, relating to alleged price fixing agreements among Colombian banks relating to fees and commissions charged to merchants. As a result of these investigations, the fees charged to merchants and bank interchange fees could decrease, which could also lead to changes in commercial strategies that could affect Helm Bank’s, CorpBanca Colombia’s and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, fees charged for other banking services have and may continue to be reduced in the future as a result of regulatory measures and/or pressure from retailers and interest groups. Our Colombian operations face uncertainty regarding consumer protection laws Law No. 1,328 of 2009, also referred to as the “financial reform law,” creates a customer protection regime with respect to financial institutions. The financial reform law provides a bill of rights for consumers of financial services and products, including the right to receive clear, complete and reliable information about the services and products offered by financial institutions. The law and the decrees and regulations issued pursuant to it also contain specific obligations for financial institutions, including a duty to maintain a financial ombudsman in charge of consumer protection and procedures regulating the responsibilities and function of the ombudsman, a duty to create a financial consumer attention center pursuant to terms set by the Colombian Superintendency of Finance, an obligation to provide services and products under the same conditions offered to the general public, and a prohibition on the inclusion of predatory or abusive clauses in contracts with consumers. Any violation of this law or the decrees and regulations issued pursuant to this law by Helm Bank or CorpBanca Colombia could result in monetary or administrative sanctions or restrictions on its operations. Certain payments received by the bank may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax Pursuant to Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code and U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, a 30% U.S. withholding tax may be imposed on all or some of the payments received by the bank from sources in the United States after June 30, 2014 if we fail to comply with certain information reporting, certification and other related requirements. It is presently unclear whether the bank will so comply and whether, and to what extent, the U.S. withholding tax will apply. In the event that the 30% U.S. withholding tax applies to U.S. source payments after June 30, 2014, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ACQUISITION OF HELM BANK We may not be able to manage our growth successfully We have been expanding the scope of our operations over the past few years, and we expect that this expansion will continue. As we continue to grow, we must improve our operational, technical and managerial knowledge and compliance systems in order to effectively manage our operations across the expanded group. Failure to integrate, monitor and manage expanded operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial results. Our future growth will also depend on our access to internal and external financing sources. We may be unable to access such financing on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Integration of acquired or merged businesses involves certain risks that may have a material adverse effect on us We have engaged in a number of mergers and acquisitions in the past, including the acquisition of CorpBanca Colombia in 2012, the Helm Bank Acquisition in 2013, and may make further mergers and acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy. We believe that these transactions will contribute to our continued growth and competitiveness in the Chilean, Colombian, and international banking sectors. Any acquisition and merger of institutions and assets and the integration of such institutions and assets involves certain risks including the risk that: • integrating new networks, information systems, personnel, financial and accounting systems, risk and other management systems, financial planning and reporting, products and customer bases into our existing business may run into difficulties, cause us to incur unexpected costs and operating expenses and place additional demands on management time; 32 Table of Contents • we may incur unexpected liabilities or contingencies relating to acquired businesses; • antitrust and other regulatory authorities may impose restrictions or limitations on the terms of the acquisition or merger, require disposition of certain assets or businesses or withhold their approval of such transaction; and • the expected operation and financial synergies and other benefits from such mergers or acquisitions may not be fully achieved. If we fail to achieve the business growth opportunities, cost savings and other benefits we anticipate from mergers and acquisition transactions, or incur greater integration costs than we have estimated, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Acquisitions and strategic partnerships may not perform in accordance with expectations, may fail to receive required regulatory approvals or may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business financial condition and results of operations A component of our strategy is to identify and pursue growth-enhancing strategic opportunities. As part of that strategy we have consummated (i) the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition in 2012 and (ii) the Helm Bank Acquisition in 2013. Pursuant to applicable Colombian Law, Helm Bank will be merged with and into CorpBanca Colombia on or before August 6, 2014. We will continue to consider additional strategic acquisitions and alliances from time to time, inside and outside of Chile and Colombia. Strategic acquisitions and alliances, including the Helm Bank Acquisition, could expose us to risks with which we have limited or no experience. Future acquisitions may also be subject to regulatory approval, which we may not receive, particularly in view of our increasing market share in the Colombian banking industry. We must necessarily base any assessment of potential acquisitions and alliances on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may subsequently prove to be incorrect. Future acquisitions and alliances may not produce anticipated synergies or perform in accordance with our expectations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, new demands on our existing organization, management and employees resulting from the integration of new acquisitions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have problems integrating Helm Bank and its subsidiaries and affiliates to the group A key element of our expansion strategy consists in the acquisition of existing businesses and their integration into our business model and administration and management processes. Our ability to attain the expected results of the Helm Bank Acquisition will be largely dependent on our ability to integrate Helm Bank’s operations into our existing operations, and to implement our business in a timely and effective manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate Helm Bank and its subsidiaries into our operations and business model. If we are unable to efficiently operate or integrate Helm Bank or its subsidiaries into our business model, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO THE ANNOUNCED ITAÚ-CORPBANCA MERGER CorpBanca may be unable to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger The Itaú-CorpBanca Merger involves bringing together two large financial institutions that currently operate as independent companies. CorpBanca will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating certain aspects of the business practices and operations of CorpBanca and Itaú Chile. The success of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger will depend, in part, on CorpBanca’s ability to realize anticipated revenue synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities resulting from the combination of the businesses of CorpBanca and Itaú Chile. CorpBanca hopes to generate synergies resulting from optimization of 33 Table of Contents organizational structures, scalable IT systems, savings related to the branch network and reductions in administrative expenses. There is a risk, however, that CorpBanca may not be able to combine the businesses of CorpBanca and Itaú Chile in a manner that permits CorpBanca to realize these revenue synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities in the time, manner or amounts CorpBanca currently expects or at all. Potential difficulties CorpBanca may encounter as part of the merger process include, among other things: • complexities associated with managing Itaú-CorpBanca; • the need to implement, integrate and harmonize various business-specific operating procedures and systems, as well as the financial, accounting, information and other systems of CorpBanca and Itaú Chile; • potential loss of key employees as a result of implementing the proposed Transactions; • the need to coordinate the existing products and customer bases of CorpBanca and Itaú Chile; and • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger and the other transactions described in the Transaction Agreement (as defined below), or the Transactions. In addition, CorpBanca and Itaú Chile have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate separately. It is possible that the integration process could result in: • diversion of management’s attention from their normal areas of responsibility to address issues related to the Transactions; and • the disruption of CorpBanca’s or Itaú Chile’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in its standards, controls, procedures and policies, each of which could adversely affect their ability to maintain good relationships with its customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the proposed Transactions, and could increase costs or reduce their earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects of the merged entity following the completion of the merger, Itaú CorpBanca, which we refer to herein as Itaú-CorpBanca, following the completion of the merger. Actual revenue synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and efficiency and operational benefits resulting from the merger may be lower and may take CorpBanca longer than it currently expects. The integration of two large companies also presents significant management challenges. In order to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, the operations of the two companies will need to be reorganized and their resources will need to be combined in a timely and flexible manner. There can be no assurance that CorpBanca will be able to implement these steps as anticipated or at all. If CorpBanca fails to consummate the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger within the time frame that is currently contemplated or to the extent that is currently planned, or if for any other reason the expected revenue synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities fail to materialize, the Transactions, may not produce the benefits that CorpBanca currently anticipates. CorpBanca has and will continue to incur significant costs and expenses in connection with the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger CorpBanca has incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the proposed Transaction. These costs and expenses include financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, reorganization and restructuring costs, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. Some of these costs are payable by CorpBanca and Itaú Chile regardless of whether the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger is completed. There are also many processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger. While CorpBanca has assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the Transactions, there are many factors beyond CorpBanca’s control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the related expenses. There may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger that CorpBanca may not recoup. These costs and expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that CorpBanca expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale, other efficiencies and cost savings. Although CorpBanca expects that these savings will offset these integration and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. 34 Table of Contents Itaú Unibanco will control the board of directors of Itaú-CorpBanca Itaú Unibanco and CorpGroup will collectively appoint a majority of the directors of the board of directors of Itaú-CorpBanca after the completion of the Transactions. The Itaú-CorpBanca Shareholders Agreement to be entered into by Itaú Unibanco and Corp Group contemplates that the directors appointed by them will vote in a block and in accordance with the recommendation of Itaú Unibanco, subject to certain exceptions. Accordingly, Itaú Unibanco will be able to control the actions taken by the board of directors of Itaú-CorpBanca on most matters. Uncertainties associated with the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees that could adversely affect CorpBanca, Itaú Chile and/or Itaú-CorpBanca The success of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger is dependent, in part, on the experience and industry knowledge of their senior management and other key employees of CorpBanca and Itaú Chile and their ability to execute their business plans. In order to be successful, CorpBanca, Itaú Chile and Itaú-CorpBanca must be able to retain the senior management and other key employees and their ability to attract highly qualified personnel in the future. Current and prospective employees of CorpBanca and Itaú Chile may experience uncertainty about their roles within Itaú-CorpBanca following completion of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of CorpBanca, Itaú Chile or Itaú-CorpBanca to retain or attract senior management and other key employees, and in turn, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the success of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger. Itaú-CorpBanca’s future results will suffer if it cannot effectively manage its expanded operations following completion of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger Following the completion of the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger, the size of the business of Itaú-CorpBanca will be significantly larger and more complex than the current business of CorpBanca or Itaú Chile. Itaú-CorpBanca’s future success will depend, in part, on CorpBanca’s ability to manage this expanded business, posing substantial challenges for management. There can be no assurances that Itaú-CorpBanca will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and other benefits currently anticipated by CorpBanca and Itaú Chile from the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger. CorpBanca must obtain approval of its shareholders to the Transactions, which, if delayed or not obtained, may jeopardize or delay its consummation The Transactions are conditioned on the approval by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of CorpBanca common stock. If the shareholders of CorpBanca do not provide such approval, then CorpBanca and Itaú Chile cannot consummate the Transactions. CorpBanca has not yet scheduled a shareholders meeting for the purpose of obtaining such vote. Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met The Transactions are subject to various customary regulatory approvals that must be obtained from certain bank and other governmental authorities in several jurisdictions. These authorities may impose conditions on the granting of such approvals. Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on CorpBanca. Regulatory approvals may not be received at any time, may not be received in a timely fashion, and may contain conditions on the completion of the merger. In addition, CorpBanca and Itaú Chile may elect not to consummate the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger if, in connection with any required regulatory approval, any governmental or regulatory entity imposes any restriction, requirement or condition that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on either CorpBanca and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or Itaú Chile, Itaú Colombia and their subsidiaries, taken as a whole. 35 Table of Contents Failure to consummate the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger could negatively impact the share price and the future business and financial results of CorpBanca If the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger is not consummated, the ongoing businesses of CorpBanca may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having consummated the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger, CorpBanca will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • CorpBanca and/or Itaú Chile will be required to pay costs and expenses relating to the proposed Transactions; • matters relating to the Transactions may require substantial commitments of time and resources by CorpBanca’s management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to CorpBanca; and • the Transaction Agreement restricts CorpBanca, without Itaú Chile’s consent; and subject to certain exceptions, from taking certain actions until the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger is consummated. These restrictions may prevent CorpBanca from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to their businesses that may arise prior to consummation of the Transactions. If the Transactions are not consummated, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect CorpBanca business, financial results and share price. The Transaction Agreement contains provisions that restrict CorpBanca’s ability to pursue alternative transactions The Transaction Agreement prohibits the parties from soliciting, discussing, negotiating or entering into alternative transactions. This provision could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of CorpBanca from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher value than the value of the proposed Transactions. The Transaction Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the Transactions may not be completed The Transaction Agreement is subject to a number of customary closing conditions which must be fulfilled in order to consummate the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger. Those conditions include: approval of the Transaction Agreement by CorpBanca shareholders, receipt of all required regulatory approvals, absence of orders preventing or suspending consummation of the Transactions, receipt of specified consents, the accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties, performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements, the execution and delivery by both parties of the Shareholders’ Agreement and certain pledge agreements, and the absence of any circumstance, occurrence or change that has had a material adverse effect on any of the parties. These conditions to the closing of the Transactions may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed. As discussed in Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings, shareholders have commenced an action that purports to seek an order enjoining the Itaú-CorpBanca Merger. In addition, if the Transactions are not completed by the second anniversary from the date of the Transaction Agreement, either CorpBanca or Itaú Chile may choose not to proceed with the Transactions, and any party can unilaterally decide to terminate the Transaction Agreement. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES U.S. securities laws do not require us to disclose as much information to investors as a U.S. issuer is required to disclose, and you may receive less information about us than you might otherwise receive from a comparable U.S. company The corporate disclosure requirements applicable to us may not be equivalent to the requirements applicable to a U.S. company and, as a result, you may receive less information about us than you might otherwise receive in connection with a comparable U.S. company. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the 36 Table of Contents Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, that apply to “foreign private issuers.” The periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. We are required only to file an annual report on Form 20-F, but we are not required to file any quarterly reports. A U.S. registrant must file an annual report on Form 10-K and three quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We are required to furnish current reports on Form 6-K, but the information that we must disclose in those reports is governed primarily by Chilean law disclosure requirements and may differ from Form 8-K’s current reporting requirements imposed on a U.S. issuer. We are not subject to the proxy requirements of Section 14 of the Exchange Act and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are not subject to the short swing insider trading reporting and recovery requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, limiting the protections afforded to investors We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (i) a majority of our board of directors (directorio), or Board of Directors, consist of independent directors, (ii) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (iii) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (iv) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken, and (v) the members of the audit committee meet the Exchange Act Rule 10A-3(b)(1) independence requirements. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to investors in companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance” for a comparison of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange and Chilean practice. Certain actions by our principal shareholder may have an adverse effect on the future market value of our securities and may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders Our controlling shareholder is Corp Group Banking S.A., which in turn is controlled by Mr. Alvaro Saieh Bendeck. As of December 31, 2013, together with members of his family, Mr. Saieh Bendeck and his family had an indirect ownership of 75.6% of Corp Group Banking S.A. and 51.4% of CorpBanca’s outstanding common shares through such holding company and also through other investment companies such as Compañía Inmobiliaria y de Inversiones Saga S.A., or Saga, a company owned by Mr. Saieh Bendeck and his family. In addition, Mr. Saieh Bendeck currently holds shares with sufficient voting power under Chilean law to approve substantially all of the forms of corporate action subject to decision by shareholders’ meetings (except for certain actions subject to supermajority approval according to Chilean law), including the distribution of dividends (above the legal minimum of 30% of net profits), to elect a majority of the nine members of the Board of Directors, to direct our management and to control substantially all matters that are to be decided by a vote of shareholders, including fundamental corporate transactions. 37 Table of Contents Investors may find it difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons We are organized under the laws of Chile, and our principal place of business (domicilio social) is in Santiago, Chile. Most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside of the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce in Chile judgments rendered by United States courts against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs AND COMMON SHARES There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our ADSs and common shares A lack of liquidity in the markets may develop for our ADSs, which would negatively affect the ability of the holders to sell our ADSs or the price at which holders of our ADSs will be able to sell them. Future trading prices of our ADSs will depend on many factors including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and the market for similar securities. Our common shares underlying the ADSs are listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic Exchange, although the trading market for the common shares is small by international standards. As of December 31, 2013, we had 340,358,194,234 common shares. Although ADS holders are entitled to withdraw common shares underlying ADSs from the depositary at any time, the Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. As of December 31, 2013, our non-controlling shareholders held approximately 48.6% of our outstanding common shares. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market any common shares obtained upon withdrawal of such common shares from our ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase volatility of the price of the common shares in the form of ADSs. In addition, according to article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Law No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, or SVS, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on the Chilean stock exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the SVS will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. Furthermore, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it is deemed necessary. These and other factors may substantially limit your ability to sell the common shares underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. The issuance or sale, of a substantial number of our ADSs and common shares, or the perception of a potential issuance or sale, may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and common shares The market price for our common shares may vary significantly in the event a significant number of our common shares is issued or sold by us, our directors and officers or any other relevant shareholders or in the event there is a perception in the market that we, our directors and officers or a relevant shareholder intends to issue or sell, as the case may be, a significant number of common shares. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Law No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Corporations Law, and applicable regulations establish that whenever we issue new common shares for cash, we are obligated by law to grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including the depositary on behalf of the holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. However, we may not be able to offer shares to United States holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future 38 Table of Contents issuance of common shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Act, is effective with respect to such rights and common shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act is available. Our existing shareholders who do not participate in any future preemptive rights offering will suffer an immediate dilution of their percentage equity participation in us. In addition, investors who purchase ADSs or common shares may be subject to dilution of their equity participation in us upon the completion of any future preemptive rights offering. Investors will not know the extent to which they will be diluted until the expiration of any future preemptive rights offering in Chile. We may also need to seek additional funding in the financial and capital markets in the future. We may resort to public or private offerings of common shares, including common shares in the form of ADSs, or securities convertible or exchangeable into, or that in any other manner allow for the subscription of, common shares, including common shares in the form of ADSs. Any public or private offering of common shares, including common shares in the form of ADSs, or securities convertible or exchangeable into ADSs or common shares, may dilute our existing shareholders’ interests in us or may have an adverse impact on the value of our ADSs and common shares. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States Our corporate affairs are governed by our Estatutos Sociales, or By-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary Under Chilean law, a shareholder is required to be registered in our shareholders’ registry at least five business days before a shareholders’ meeting in order to vote at such meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to vote at shareholders’ meetings, because the shares underlying the ADSs will be registered in the name of the depositary. While a holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs in accordance with the procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In certain instances, a discretionary proxy may vote our shares underlying the ADSs if a holder of ADSs does not instruct the depositary with respect to voting. In addition, the vote of a holder of ADSs may not be necessary to approve certain matters since under Chilean law, substantially all of the forms of corporate action can be approved with the votes of our controlling shareholder in a duly summoned shareholders’ meeting, Corp Group Banking and other investment companies such as Saga, which are owned by Mr. Saieh Bendeck and his family, except for certain matters requiring supermajority approval according to Chilean law. U.S. holders of our ADSs or common shares could suffer adverse tax consequences if the Company is characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If you are a U.S. holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. federal income tax considerations”) and we are a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year during which you own our ADSs or common shares, you could be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences. As of the date of this Annual Report, we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year or for any taxable year in the foreseeable future. However, the determination of whether we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition and nature of our income and the composition, nature and value of our assets from time to time, and therefore no assurance can be provided regarding our PFIC status. You should consult your tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, state and local and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of the ADSs or common shares in your particular circumstances. See Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. federal income tax considerations”, for additional information related to the PFIC rules and their application to the bank. 39 Table of Contents Holders of the ADSs or our common shares could be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax. Pursuant to Sections 1,471 through 1,474 of the Code and U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, 30% withholding tax may be imposed on all or some of the payments on the ADSs or our common stock after December 31, 2016 to holders and non-U.S. financial institutions receiving payments on behalf of holders that, in each case, fail to comply with information reporting, certification and related requirements. This withholding tax, if it applies, could apply to any payment made with respect to the ADSs or our common stock, and ADSs or shares of our common stock held through a non-compliant institution may be subject to withholding even if the holder otherwise would not be subject to withholding. U.S. holders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding the application of these rules to their ownership of the ADSs or our common stock. See Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. federal income tax considerations”, for additional information related to these rules and their application to holders of ADSs or our common shares. Exchange controls and withholding taxes in Chile may limit repatriation of your investment. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents are generally subject to various exchange control regulations that govern the repatriation of investments and earnings. The ADSs are governed by an agreement among us, the depositary and the Central Bank of Chile, or the Foreign Investment Agreement. The Foreign Investment Agreement grants the depositary and the holders of the ADRs access to Chile’s Formal Exchange Market, permits the depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the holders of ADSs and permits the holders of ADSs to repatriate the proceeds of the sale of shares withdrawn from the ADR facility, thereby enabling them to acquire on more favorable terms currencies necessary to repatriate investments in the shares and earnings therefrom. Pursuant to current Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Agreement may not be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank of Chile, and there are judicial precedents (which are not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that the Foreign Investment Agreement may not be voided by future legislative changes. Dividends received by holders of ADSs are paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees and expenses of the depositary and are subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35%, subject to credits in certain cases as described under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Chilean Tax Considerations”. In order to facilitate capital movements from and into Chile and to encourage foreign investment, the Central Bank of Chile eliminated foreign exchange restrictions and adopted the Compendium of Foreign Exchange Regulations (Compendio de Normas de Cambios Internacionales) effective April 19, 2001. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to the holders of ADRs, the disposition of the shares underlying the ADRs or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. If for any reason, including changes in the Foreign Investment Agreement or Chilean law, the depositary was able to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends or other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. 40 Table of Contents 