D. RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From December 31, 1995 to December 31, 2005, our aggregate loan portfolio grew by 572.4% in nominal terms to Ch$2,848,259 million. Our business strategy seeks to increase our market share by increasing the size of our loan portfolio. The growth of our loan portfolio (particularly in the lower-middle to middle income consumer and small and medium-sized corporate business segments) may expose us, in an economic downturn, to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish proportionately higher levels of provisions for loan losses, which will partially offset the increased income that we can expect to receive as the loan portfolio grows. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate. There can be no assurance that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same or similar rates as the growth rate that we historically experienced. Due to the economic slowdown in Chile in recent years and the recession of 1999, loan demand has not been as strong as it was in the mid-1990s. Average loan growth has, however, remained significant in the last five years. According to the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, from December 31, 1999 to December 31, 2005, the aggregate amount of loans in the Chilean banking system (on an unconsolidated basis) grew 74.4% in nominal terms to Ch$44,833.4 million as of December 31, 2005. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowance for loan losses. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect the results of our operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, with BancoEstado (a public-sector bank) and with large department stores that make consumer loans to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower-middle to middle income segments of the Chilean population and the small and medium-sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks, and competition in these segments is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments are likely to decline. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from the lower-middle to middle income consumer market segments and for small and medium-sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, our net interest margins may not be maintained at their current levels. We believe that our principal competitors are Banco de Crédito e Inversiones, or BCI, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, Chile S.A., or BBVA, Banco del Desarrollo, Citibank and Scotiabank Sudamericano, but we also face competition from larger banks such as Banco de Chile and Banco Santander Santiago, among others. We also face competition from non-bank and non-finance competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards and consumer loans. Non-bank competition from large department stores has become increasingly significant in the consumer lending sector. Since 2001, three new private sector banks affiliated with Chile’s largest department stores have initiated operations mainly as consumer and medium-sized corporate niche banks. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to loans and credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products and mortgage loans. Banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds in Chile, and the insurance sales business has seen rapid growth. Nevertheless, non-banking competition, especially department stores, may be able to engage in some types of advertising and promotion in which, by virtue of Chilean banking rules and regulations, we are prohibited from engaging. 12 Table of Contents The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to, among other things, consolidation in the industry. In 2002 Banco Santiago and Banco Santander-Chile, the then second and third largest private banks in Chile, respectively, merged to become Chile’s largest bank. In 2002, Banco de Chile and Banco de A. Edwards, then the third and fifth largest private banks in Chile respectively, merged to become the second largest Chilean bank. In 2004, BCI purchased 99.9% of the shares of Banco Conosur. Consolidation, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate and increasing our costs of operation. Our exposure to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans and subsequent loan losses. A substantial number of our customers consists of individuals and small and medium-sized companies (those with annual sales between Ch$600 million and Ch$5,999 million). As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small and medium-sized companies and individuals. Our business results relating to our individual and small and medium-sized company customers are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy, including increases in unemployment, than our business from large corporations and high-income individuals. For example, unemployment directly affects the capacity of individuals to obtain and repay consumer loans. Consequently, in the future we may experience higher levels of past due loans, which could result in higher provisions for loan losses. In 1997, the Chilean Superintendency of Banks increased the level of provisions required for consumer loans (including loans to high income individuals) due to concerns regarding the levels of consumer indebtedness and vulnerability of the banking sector in an economic downturn and in 2004 the Chilean Superintendency of Banks issued new regulations concerning how loans are categorized for purposes of assigning provisions. There can be no assurance that the levels of past due loans and subsequent loan losses will not be materially higher in the future. Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility. Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest revenue. In 2004 and 2005, net interest revenue represented 81.4% and 78.9% of our operating revenues, respectively. Changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest bearing liabilities leading to a reduction in our net interest revenue. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Over the period from December 31, 1998 to December 31, 2005, yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day note as reported on those dates moved from 13.49% to 4.75%, then decreasing, with a high of 8.69% and low of 6.14% in 2001, a high of 6.00% and a low of 2.87% in 2002, a high of 2.97% and a low of 2.48% in 2003, a high of 2.35% and a low of 1.31% in 2004. However, this benchmark rate began to rise in the latter part of 2005, reaching a high of 4.75% and a low of 2.49% in 2005 and a high of 4.73% and a low of 4.39% in the first five months of 2006. In the latter part of 2005 and the first three months of 2006, we liquidated a significant portion of our investment portfolio in order to avoid substantial mark-to-market losses relating to our investments in Chilean government and Central Bank bonds, the value of which decreased as interest rates increased. Any volatility in interest rates could adversely affect our business, our future financial performance and the price of our securities. We may experience operational problems or errors. We, like all large financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurances that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO CHILE Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile and other emerging markets. A substantial amount of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. The Chilean economy has been influenced, to varying degrees, by economic conditions in other emerging market countries. Changes in Chilean economic growth in the future or future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including further consequences of continuing economic difficulties in Brazil, Argentina and other emerging markets, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. According to data published by the Central Bank, the Chilean economy contracted at a rate of 0.8% in 1999 and grew at a rate of 4.5% in 2000, 3.4% in 2001, 2.2% in 2002, 3.3% in 2003, 6.1% in 2004 and 6.3% in 2005. Historically, lower economic growth has adversely affected the overall asset quality of the Chilean banking system and that of our loan portfolio. According to information published by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, the unconsolidated risk index of the banks comprising the Chilean financial system deteriorated from 1.98% as of October 31, 1999, to 2.08% as of October 31, 2000, improved to 1.90% as of October 2001, deteriorated to 1.95% as of October 31, 2002, improved to 1.82% as of October 31, 2003, deteriorated to 1.99% as of December 31, 2004 and improved to 1.61% as of December 31, 2005. Our unconsolidated risk index as of December 31, 2005 was 1.45%. See “Item 4. Information of the Company—Business Overview—Selected Statistical Information—Analysis of Our Loan Classification—Risk Index” for a definition of “risk index.” Our results of operations and financial condition could also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. For instance, the devaluation of the Mexican peso in December 1994 set off an economic crisis in Mexico that negatively affected the market value of securities in many countries throughout Latin America. The crisis in the Asian markets, beginning in July 1997, resulted in sharp devaluations of other Asian currencies and negatively affected markets throughout Asia, as well as many markets in Latin America, including Chile. Similar adverse consequences resulted from the 1998 crisis in Russia and the devaluation of the Brazilian real in 1999. In part due to the Asian and Russian crises, the Chilean stock market declined significantly in 1998 to levels equivalent to 1994. Economic problems in Argentina and Brazil may have an adverse effect on the Chilean economy and on our results of operations and the share price of our ADSs and shares. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Latin America, especially in Argentina and Brazil. If Argentina’s economic environment significantly deteriorates or does not improve, the economy in Chile, as both a neighboring country and a trading partner, could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years. The recent cuts in gas exports from Argentina to Chile could also adversely affect economic growth in Chile. Our business could be affected by an economic downturn in Brazil. This could result in the need for us to increase our loan allowances, thus affecting our financial results, our results of operations and the price of our securities. The crises and political uncertainties in other Latin American countries could also have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our shares and ADSs. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our securities. The peso has been subject to significant devaluations in the past and could be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. In the period from December 31, 1997 to December 31, 2005, the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar decreased 16.9%, as compared to an 8.8% decrease in 14 Table of Contents value in the period from December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1997. The observed exchange rate as of June 15, 2006 was Ch$544.51 = U.S.$1.00, reflecting a depreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar of 2.5% since December 31, 2005. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate mismatches. In order to avoid material exchange rate mismatches, we enter into forward exchange transactions. As of December 31, 2005, our foreign currency denominated assets and peso-denominated assets that contain repayment terms linked to changes in foreign currency exchange rates exceeded our foreign currency denominated liabilities and peso-denominated liabilities that contain repayment terms linked to changes in foreign currency exchange rates by Ch$18,343 million (approximately U.S.$36.3 million). We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate mismatches. Regulations that limit such mismatches may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate mismatches will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service our foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate mismatches, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Trading transactions in Chile of the shares of common stock underlying our ADSs are denominated in pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our shares of common stock are received in Chilean pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will be reduced. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. Inflation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although Chilean inflation has moderated in recent years, Chile has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and, indirectly, the value of our securities. The following table shows the annual rate of inflation (as measured by changes in the Chilean Consumer Price Index, or CPI, and as reported by the Chilean Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas, or the Chilean National Institute of Statistics, during the last six years ended December 31 and through May 31, 2006). Year Inflation (CPI) (in percentages) 2000 4.5 % 2001 2.6 2002 2.8 2003 1.1 2004 2.4 2005 3.7 2006 (through May 31) 1.5 Source: Chilean National Institute of Statistics. There can be no assurance that our operating results will not be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, or that Chilean inflation will not change significantly from the current level. Banking regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including interest rates and foreign exchange. 15 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Chilean Ley General de Bancos, Decreto con Fuerza de Ley No. 3 de 1997, or the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks, subject to the approval of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, may engage in certain businesses other than commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and the financial strength of the bank. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basle Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks to deny new banking licenses. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us, than those currently in effect. Any change in applicable banking regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. However, effective June 1, 2002, the Central Bank allowed banks to pay interest on checking accounts. Currently, there are no applicable restrictions on the interest that may be paid on checking accounts. If competition or other factors lead us to pay interest on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. The accounting, financial reporting and securities disclosure requirements in Chile differ from those in the United States. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to shareholders of a U.S. company. Chilean financial statements and reported earnings generally differ from those reported based on U.S. accounting and reporting standards. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Chilean and U.S. GAAP Reconciliation” and note 27 to our financial statements for a description of the principal differences between Chilean GAAP and U.S. GAAP as such differences relate to us, and a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP of our shareholders’ equity and net income as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the Chilean Superintendency of Banks unaudited unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any related footnote disclosure, prepared in accordance with Chilean GAAP and the rules of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks on a monthly basis. The Chilean Superintendency of Banks also makes summary financial information available within three weeks of receipt. Such disclosure differs in a number of significant respects from information generally available in the United States with respect to U.S. financial institutions. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open, or publicly listed, companies such as ours, have as a principal objective promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some important respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Our status as a foreign private issuer allows us to follow alternate standards to the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies with securities listed on the exchange. We currently follow Chilean practice concerning corporate governance and intend to continue to do so. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all New York Stock Exchange corporate 16 Table of Contents governance requirements. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Board Practices—Comparative Summary of Differences in Corporate Governance Standards” for a comparison of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange and Chilean practice. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls” for a discussion of the types of information required to be provided. Owners of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be converted into U.S. dollars and distributed net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean laws or regulations, the depositary were unable to convert pesos to U.S. dollars, investors may receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in pesos. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends could be imposed in the future and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. A lack of liquidity in the markets may develop for our ADSs, further a lack of the ability by the holders to sell our ADSs or fluctuations in the price at which holders of our ADSs will be able to sell them. Future trading prices of our ADSs will depend on many factors including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and the market for similar securities. Our common stock underlying the ADSs is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic Exchange, although the trading market for the common stock is small by international standards. As of June 15, 2006, we had 226,909,290,577 shares of common stock outstanding. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. In addition, according to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on the Chilean stock exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. Furthermore, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it is deemed necessary. These and other factors may substantially limit your ability to sell the common stock underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. There can be no assurance that any liquid trading market for our common stock in Chile will continue. Approximately 42.5% of our outstanding common stock was held by the public as of June 15, 2006. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market shares of common stock obtained upon withdrawal of such shares from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of the ADSs. 17 Table of Contents Certain actions by our principal shareholder may have an adverse effect on the future market price of our ADSs and shares. Alvaro Saieh Bendeck, through Corp Group Banking S.A. and Compañía Inmobiliaria y de Inversiones Saga S.A., or Saga, indirectly beneficially owns approximately 57.5% of our outstanding voting rights. The sale or disposition by Mr. Saieh Bendeck of our shares or ADSs that he indirectly owns, or the perception in the marketplace that such a sale or disposition may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our shares on the Santiago Stock Exchange and, consequently, the market price of the ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Corporations Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since we are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to such rights and the common stock, you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed and an applicable exemption is not available, the depositary will attempt to sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof, after deducting its expenses and fees, if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary. Under Chilean law, a shareholder is required to be registered in our shareholders’ registry at least five business days before a shareholders’ meeting in order to vote at such meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement and accordingly is not entitled to vote at shareholders’ meetings because the shares underlying the ADSs will be registered in the name of the depositary. While a holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs in accordance with the procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In certain instances, a discretionary proxy may vote our shares underlying the ADSs if a holder of ADSs does not instruct the depositary with respect to voting. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We are organized under the laws of Chile, and all of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in Chile. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Chile, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. 18 Table of Contents In order for ADS holders to enforce, in Chilean courts, judgments obtained in the U.S. courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, an exequatur (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) must be obtained; provided, however, that a U.S. court granted a final judgment in the action based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Such exequatur shall be obtained in accordance with Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity treaties between the countries, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant, that the enforcement is in full force in the foreign country and that enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. 