D. RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The growth and make-up of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010, the compounded annual growth rate of our aggregate gross loan portfolio was 11.4%. Our business strategy is to grow profitably while increasing the size of our loan portfolio. The growth of our loan portfolio (particularly in the lower-middle to middle income consumer and small and medium-sized corporate business segments) may expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish proportionately higher levels of provisions for loan losses, which offset the increased income that we can expect to receive as our loan portfolio grows. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate. There can be no assurance that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same or similar rates as the growth rate that we historically experienced. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. Economic turmoil could also materially and adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers as well as lead to a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment, which in turn could lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the second half of 2008, and many countries, including the United States, are currently in or are recovering from the impact of the global recession. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, have experienced significant difficulties. Around the world, there have also been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. 11 In Chile, the economic recession caused a rise in unemployment, a fall in consumer spending, a fall in real estate prices and a general decline in economic activity. Although these factors have been slowed during 2010, it is possible for us to experience these problems again in the future. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect the results of our operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, with BancoEstado (a state-owned bank) and with large department stores that offer consumer loans to a large segment of the Chilean population. The lower-middle to middle income segments of the Chilean population and the small and medium-sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks, and competition in these segments is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments have declined. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from the lower-middle to middle income consumer market segments and for small and medium-sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, our net interest margins may not be maintained at their current levels. We also face competition from non-bank and non-finance competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards and consumer loans. Non-bank competition from large department stores has become increasingly significant in the consumer lending sector. Since 2001, three new private sector banks affiliated with Chile’s largest department stores have initiated operations mainly as consumer and medium-sized corporate niche banks. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to loans and credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products and mortgage loans. Banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds in Chile, and the insurance sales business has seen rapid growth. Nevertheless, non-banking competition, especially department stores, may be able to engage in some types of advertising and promotion in which, by virtue of Chilean banking rules and regulations, we are prohibited from engaging. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry has led to, among other things, consolidation in the industry. In 2007, Scotiabank SudAmericano acquired 100.0% of Banco Desarrollo and in 2008, Banco de Chile and Citibank Chile merged operations. In 2010, Scotiabank acquired Royal Bank of Scotland’s Chilean banking operations. Consolidation, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate and increasing our costs of operation. Our allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover the future actual losses to our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was Ch$104,215.0 million (excluding allowances and impairment for foreign bank loans), and the ratio of our allowance for loan losses to total loans was 1.9%. The amount of allowances is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses require recalibration, which can lead to increased provision expense. We believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of the date hereof for all known losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional allowances for loan losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans and subsequent loan losses. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals and small and medium-sized companies (those with annual sales between Ch$600.0 million and Ch$5,999.0 million). As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small and medium-sized companies and lower-income individuals. Our business results relating to our lower-income individual and small and medium-sized company customers are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy, including increases in unemployment, than our business from large corporations and high-income individuals. For example, unemployment directly affects the capacity of individuals to obtain and repay consumer loans. Consequently, in the future we may experience higher levels of past due loans, which could result in higher allowances for loan losses. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our loan portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, our past due loans were Ch$62,873.0 million, which resulted in a past due loans to total loans ratio of 1.1%. We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems are free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. In addition, the quality of our loan portfolio may also deteriorate due to various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as the macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. If such deterioration were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. 12 The value of the collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. The value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable to a negative economic climate and this may affect us as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgages loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional allowances to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, Dicom (a Chilean nationwide credit data base) and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile, our assessment of the credit risks associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk may be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility. Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, our ratio of net interest income to total operating income was 77.6%, 65.5% and 68.7%, respectively. Changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities leading to a reduction in our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day benchmark rate began to rise in the latter part of 2005 and through 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, reaching a high of 5.2% and a low of 4.4% in 2006, a high of 6.2% and a low of 4.6% in 2007, a high of 8.4% and a low of 6.5% in 2008, a high of 7.1% and a low of 0.1% in 2009 and a high of 3.5% and a low of 0.1% in 2010. During 2008, we began to increase our investments in available-for-sale instruments as our current strategy is to build a profitable medium-term portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we had Ch$576,478.0 million, Ch$737,162.0 million and Ch$746,248.0 million, respectively, in financial investments available-for-sale. Any volatility in interest rates could adversely affect our business, our future financial performance and the market value of our securities. Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and an adverse effect on our revenues. Deposits and other term deposits are our primary sources of funding, which represent 56.3% of our liabilities. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may adversely affect our access to funding. Chilean regulations impose restrictions on the share of assets that a Chilean pension fund management company (Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones, an “AFP”) may allocate to a single issuer, which is currently 7.0% per fund managed by an AFP (including any securities issued by the issuer and any bank deposits with the issuer). If the exposure of an AFP to a single issuer exceeds the 7.0% limit, the AFP is required to reduce its exposure below the limit within three years. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate exposure of AFPs to us was approximately Ch$463,747.0 million (US$991.0 million) or 0.7% of their total assets. If the exposure of any AFP to us exceeds the regulatory limit, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. Approved legislation in Chile (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2)) relaxed the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2010, the limit on making investments abroad was 60.0% and will gradually increase to 80.0% during 2011. As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. As of December 31, 2010, 10.4% of our time deposits were from AFPs. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy. Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8.0% of risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and paid-in capital and reserves (“basic capital”) of at least 3.0% of total assets, net of required loan loss allowances. In order to maintain a high solvency classification from the SBIF, we need to have regulatory capital over 10.0% of risk-weighted assets, and our intention is to have the highest classification from the SBIF. As of December 31, 2010, the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, was 13.4%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: · the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business, · the failure to increase our capital correspondingly, · losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality, · declines in the value of our investment instrument portfolio, · changes in accounting rules, and · changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. As provided in Article 68 of the General Banking Law, if we fail to comply with the legal requirements relating to the maintenance of regulatory capital (which is comprised of effective net worth and basic capital, as both concepts are defined in such provision), we must comply with such legal requirements within a period of sixty days. For each day we fail to comply with such legal requirements, we may be subject to a daily penalty equal to one thousandth of the deficit of the effective net worth or basic capital, as the case may be. Our business is highly dependent on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems. Our business is highly dependant on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we do not operate all of our backup systems on a real time basis and cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade information technology systems effectively or on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience operational problems or errors. We, like all large financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurances that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Our anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing measures may not prevent third parties from using us as a conduit for those activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing laws and regulations and we have adopted various policies and procedures, including internal controls and “know-your customer” procedures, aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, because we also rely on our correspondent banks having their own appropriate anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing procedures, we use what we believe are commercially reasonable procedures for monitoring our correspondent banks. However, these measures, procedures and compliance may not be entirely effective in preventing third parties from using us (and our correspondent banks) as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing without our (and our correspondent banks’) knowledge or consent. If we were to be associated with money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing, our reputation could be harmed and we could become subject to fines, sanctions or legal enforcement (including being added to any “blacklists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with us), which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Banking regulations may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. During the Chilean financial crisis of 1982 and 1983, the Central Bank and the Chilean Superintendency of Banks strictly controlled the funding, lending and general business matters of the banking industry in Chile. Pursuant to the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, engage in certain businesses other than commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and the financial strength of the bank. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, asset management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system as a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks to deny new banking licenses. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, numerous novel regulatory proposals have been discussed or proposed. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. However, since June 1, 2002, the Central Bank has allowed banks to pay interest on checking accounts. Currently, there are no applicable restrictions on the interest that may be paid on checking accounts. We have paid interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay interest on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to regulatory inspections and examinations. We are also subject to various inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. 15 RISKS RELATING TO CHILE The occurrence of natural disasters in the regions where we operate could impair our ability to conduct business effectively and could impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of natural disasters such as the earthquake in 2010 as well as tsunamis and volcanic eruptions in the regions where we operate. In the event of a natural disaster, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business in the affected region, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, if a significant number of our local employees and managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. A natural disaster, such as the earthquake in 2010, could damage some of our branches and ATMs, forcing us to close damaged facilities or locations, increased recovery costs as well as cause economic harm to our clients. A natural disaster or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on local businesses in the affected region and could result in substantial volatility or adverse harm in our business, financial condition and results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year. Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile and other emerging markets. A substantial amount of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. The Chilean economy has been influenced, to varying degrees, by economic conditions in other emerging market countries. Changes in Chilean economic growth in the future or future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in Brazil, and other emerging markets or a deceleration in the economic growth of Asian or other developed nations to which Chile exports a majority of its goods, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. According to data published by the Central Bank, the Chilean economy grew at a rate of 3.2%, fell by 1.9% and grew by 5.2% (estimated) in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Historically, lower economic growth has adversely affected the overall asset quality of the Chilean banking system and our loan portfolio. Below is a detail of the of the risk index of the banks comprising the Chilean financial system according to information published by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks: Year ended December 31, Risk Index 2008(1) 1.7% 2009(1) 2.4% 2010(1) 2.5% (1) As of January 1, 2008, the Chilean Superintendency of Banks publishes monthly consolidated financial information. Prior to 2008, the Chilean Superintendency of Banks published unconsolidated information. Index includes contingent loans and allowances. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Selected Statistical Information—Risk Index of Our Loan Portfolio” for a definition of “risk index.” Our results of operations and financial condition could also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Starting in September 2008, the economic and financial crisis in the United States and Europe sparked a series of financial institution failures throughout the globe. This resulted in a liquidity crisis and a reduction in growth of the global economy as financial institutions tightened risk policies and reduced lending to banks, corporations and individuals. Consequently, Chile was affected by a strong decrease in growth during the fourth quarter of 2008 and in 2009 as its trading partners entered into recession affecting local corporate sales, employment levels, plans for investment and the price of exports. In 2010, the Chilean economy recovered with high levels of growth, low unemployment, low inflation and low interest rates, that contributed to the positive trends of the banking industry during 2010. Nonetheless, a global financial crisis could affect the Chilean economy and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the market value of our securities. 16 In addition, our financial condition and results of operations could also be affected by regulatory changes in administrative practices, changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government or other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile, over which we have no control. Economic and political problems encountered by other countries may adversely affect the Chilean economy, our results of operations and the market value of our securities. The market value of securities issued by Chilean companies, including banks, are to varying degrees influenced by economic and market considerations in other countries. We cannot assure you that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in other markets, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Latin America, especially in Argentina and Brazil. If Argentina’s economic environment significantly deteriorates or does not improve, the economy in Chile, as both a neighboring country and a trading partner, could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years. If there are cuts in gas exports from Argentina to Chile, as there has been in prior years, it could adversely affect economic growth in Chile. This could result in the need for us to increase our allowances for loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our financial results, our results of operations and the market value of our securities. Crises and political uncertainties in other Latin American countries could also have a material adverse effect on Chile, the market value of our securities or our business. Current economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits represented 58.7%, 56.4% and 56.3% of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Large-denominations in time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. Recent limitations on liquidity triggered by the world economic crisis starting in 2008 has impacted global markets and affected sources of funding, including time deposits. As of December 31, 2010, our investment portfolio did not contain instruments (i) backed by, or otherwise related to, U.S. subprime mortgages, or (ii) with exposure to monoline financial guarantors. Although our results of operations and financial position have not suffered a significant impact as a consequence of the recent credit market instability in the U.S. and the liquidity available in the Chilean market has permitted us to fund our operations and maintain our regular business activities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue funding our business or, if so, maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Recent Developments in the Banking Industry”. Deceleration of economic growth in Asia, the United States and other developed nations may have an adverse effect on the Chilean economy, on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our ADSs and common shares. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States and other developed nations, including the global economic world crisis that still affects part of the world, especially Europe. If these nations’ economic environments deteriorate, the economy in Chile could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the market value of our securities. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our ADSs and common shares. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our securities. The peso has been subject to significant devaluations in the past and could be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. As of December 31, 2008, the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 28.0% as compared to 2007. In 2009, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 20.4% as compared to 2008. As of December 31, 2010, the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 7.4% as compared to 2009. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate gaps. Entering into forward exchange transactions enables us to reduce the negative impact of material gaps between the balances of our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, the gap between foreign currency denominated assets and foreign currency denominated liabilities, excluding derivatives, was Ch$(158,770.0) million, Ch$(279,942.0) million and Ch$(444,175.0) million, respectively. 17 We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate gaps. Regulations that limit such gaps may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate gaps will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service our foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate gaps, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Trading transactions in Chile of the common shares underlying our ADSs are denominated in pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our common shares are received in pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will be reduced. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. Chile’s banking regulatory and capital markets environment is continually evolving and may change. Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the banking sector and financial institutions are continually evolving and changing. In 2007, new regulations governing the Chilean capital markets were approved (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2)). These regulations, among other things, modified certain provisions set forth in the General Banking Law. Under new legislation, the limit on the amount that a bank is allowed to grant as an unsecured loan to a single individual or entity was increased to 10.0% of regulatory capital (and up to 30.0% of regulatory capital if any loans granted in excess of the 10.0% is secured by collateral). Previously, these limits were set at 5.0% and 25.0%, respectively. Although any such increase may increase our lending activity, it may also increase the risks associated with the growth of our loan portfolio and increase competition as the number of banks that can compete in the corporate segment increases. In June 2010, additional regulations governing the Chilean capital markets, called Reforma al Mercado de Capitales III (also known as MK3), were approved. MK3, among other things, allows non-Chilean banks with representative offices in Chile to directly promote the credit products and services of their parent companies. Previously, these representative offices could only act as intermediaries between their parent companies and local companies. This change may further increase competition by increasing the number of banks that can compete directly in Chile. Inflation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation in Chile gained momentum in 2008, reaching 7.1%. However, economic activity slowed significantly in 2009, resulting in 1.4% deflation. Economic growth increased in 2010, ending the year with 3.0% inflation, in part supported by additional government and private sector spending to finance the reconstruction work required to restore Chile’s productive capacity and financial aid to the areas affected by the 2010 earthquake and tsunami. The Central Bank increased the interbank rate to 1.5% in July 2010, and further to 2.0% in August 2010 in response to an increase in inflation expectations driven by increased economic activity. In 2010, the Central Bank continued increasing the interbank rate in September, October, November and December to 2.50%, 2.75%, 3.00% and 3.25%, respectively. High levels of inflation or deflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased regulation of the financial services industry in Chile could increase our costs and result in lower profits. As a result of the recent financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, novel regulatory proposals are abound in the current environment. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. Although we currently comply with the minimum regulatory capital ratio required under the Chilean banking regulation, no assurance can be given that in the future we will need to inject additional capital to our business if such regulation is amended. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. A worsening of labor relations in Chile could impact our business. As of December 31, 2010, on a consolidated basis we had 3,422 employees, of which 45.6% were unionized. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally enjoyed good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not result in increased employee or labor costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 Any downgrading of Chile’s debt credit rating for domestic and international debt by international credit rating agencies may also affect our ratings, our business, our future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Any adverse revisions to Chile’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies may adversely affect our ratings, and, as a result, our cost of funding, including interest rates paid on our deposits and securities. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the Chilean Superintendency of Banks unaudited consolidated and unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any related footnote disclosure on a monthly basis. As of January 2008, the statements have to be prepared in accordance with Circular No. 3,410 “Compendium of Accounting Standards” and the rules of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. The Chilean Superintendency of Banks also makes summary financial information available within four weeks of receipt. Although Chilean banks are required to apply IFRS as issued by the IASB as of January 1, 2009, certain exceptions introduced by the SBIF prevent banks from achieving full convergence. In those situations which are not addressed by the guidance issued by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, institutions must follow the generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Association of Chilean Accountants, which coincide with IFRS as issued by the IASB. However, in order to comply with the requirements of the SEC, our consolidated annual financial statements as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010 have been prepared under IFRS as issued by the IASB in order to comply with the SEC requirements. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open, or publicly listed, companies such as ours, have as a principal objective promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some important respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, and (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to investors in companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance” for a comparison of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange and Chilean practice. We cannot assure you of the accuracy or comparability of facts, forecasts and statistics contained in this report with respect to Chile, its economy and banking industry. Facts, forecasts and statistics in this document relating to Chile, Chile’s economy and the Chilean banking industry, including market share information, are derived from various official and other publicly available sources that we generally believe to be reliable. However, we cannot guarantee the quality and reliability of such official and other sources of materials. In addition, these facts, forecasts and statistics have not been independently verified by us and, therefore, we make no representation as to the accuracy of such facts, forecasts and statistics, which may not be consistent with other information compiled within or outside of Chile and may not be complete or up to date. We have taken reasonable care in reproducing or extracting the information from such sources. However, because of possibly flawed or ineffective methodologies underlying the published information or discrepancies between the published information and market practice and other problems, these facts, forecasts or statistics may be inaccurate and may not be comparable from period to period or to facts, forecasts or statistics produced for other economies, and you should not unduly rely upon them. 19 Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls” for a discussion of the types of information required to be provided. Owners of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be converted into U.S. dollars and distributed net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean laws or regulations, the depositary were unable to convert pesos to U.S. dollars, investors may receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in pesos. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends could be imposed in the future and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. Increase in income tax rate. Like all Chilean companies, we are subject to income tax at a rate of 17.0% of our taxable income. Since the earthquake of 2010, the Chilean government has found it necessary to raise funds in order to finance the reconstruction of the affected areas. As a result, the income tax rate is scheduled to temporarily increase to 20.0% in 2011 and will be reduced to 18.5% in 2012, returning to 17.0% in 2013. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our ADSs and common shares. A lack of liquidity in the markets may develop for our ADSs, which would negatively affect the ability of the holders to sell our ADSs or the price at which holders of our ADSs will be able to sell them. Future trading prices of our ADSs will depend on many factors including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and the market for similar securities. Our common shares underlying the ADSs is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic Exchange, although the trading market for the common shares is small by international standards. As of December 31, 2010, we had 226,909,290,577 common shares. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. In addition, according to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on the Chilean stock exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. Furthermore, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10.0% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it is deemed necessary. These and other factors may substantially limit your ability to sell the common shares underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. Certain actions by our principal shareholder may have an adverse effect on the future market value of our ADSs and common shares and may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders. The controlling shareholder of Corp Group Banking S.A. is Mr. Alvaro Saieh Bendeck. As of December 31, 2010, together with members his family, Mr. Saieh Bendeck maintains in an indirect ownership of 75.6% of Corp Group Banking S.A. and approximately 49.6% of Corpbanca’s outstanding common shares. In addition, Mr. Saieh Bendeck with his family are holders of 100.0% of the ownership rights of Compañía Inmobiliaria y de Inversiones Saga S.A. and SG Inversiones Bancarias Limitada. The sale or disposition by Mr. Saieh Bendeck of our ADSs or common shares that he indirectly owns, or the perception in the marketplace that such a sale or disposition may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our shares on the Santiago Stock Exchange and, consequently, the market value of the ADSs. In addition, Mr. Saieh Bendeck holds shares with sufficient voting power under Chilean law to approve substantially all of the forms of corporate action subject to decision by shareholders’ meetings, including the distribution of dividends, to elect a majority of the nine members of our board of directors, direct our management and control substantially all matters that are to be decided by a vote of shareholders, including fundamental corporate transactions. 20 You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Corporations Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common shares for cash, we are obligated by law to grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including the depositary on behalf of the holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. However, we may not be able to offer shares to United States holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future issuance of common shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Act, is effective with respect to such rights and common shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act is available. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary. Under Chilean law, a shareholder is required to be registered in our shareholders’ registry at least five business days before a shareholders’ meeting in order to vote at such meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement and accordingly is not entitled to vote at shareholders’ meetings because the shares underlying the ADSs will be registered in the name of the depositary. While a holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs in accordance with the procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In certain instances, a discretionary proxy may vote our shares underlying the ADSs if a holder of ADSs does not instruct the depositary with respect to voting. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We are organized under the laws of Chile, and nearly all of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in Chile. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Chile, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. In order for ADS holders to enforce, in Chilean courts, judgments obtained in the U.S. courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, an exequatur (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) must be obtained; provided, however, that a U.S. court granted a final judgment in the action based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Such exequatur shall be obtained in accordance with Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity treaties between the countries, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant, that the enforcement is in full force in the foreign country and that enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. 