D. RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The growth and make-up of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009, the compounded annual growth rate of our aggregate gross loan portfolio was 26.8%. Our business strategy seeks to grow profitably while increasing the size of our loan portfolio. The growth of our loan portfolio (particularly in the lower-middle to middle income consumer and small and medium-sized corporate business segments) may expose us, in an economic downturn, to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish proportionately higher levels of provisions for loan losses, which offset the increased income that we can expect to receive as the loan portfolio grows. We may also suffer loan losses as a result of our loans to salmon producing companies, which have seen their cash flows decline due to a virus affecting salmon farming in the extreme south of Chile in the last two years. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate. There can be no assurance that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same or similar rates as the growth rate that we historically experienced. Average loan growth has, however, remained significant in the last two years. According to the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009, the compounded annual growth rate of aggregate gross loan portfolio in the Chilean banking system was 18.63% in nominal terms to Ch$ 10,827,145 million as of December 31, 2009. Our consolidated annual financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS. As a result, year-on-year variations in the income statement and balance sheet accounts of the financial system presented in this annual report are based on estimations as indicated in note 1v) to our audited consolidated financial statements included herein. We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. In the past two years, the global financial system has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility, general widening of spreads and, in some cases, lack of price transparency on interbank lending rates. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the second half of 2008, and many countries, including the United States, are currently in or recovery from recession. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, have been experiencing significant difficulties. Around the world, there have also been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. In Chile, the continued economic recession has also caused a rise in unemployment, a fall in consumer spending, a fall in real estate prices and a general decline in economic activity. All of these factors may lead to a decrease in demand for individual and corporate borrowing, a decrease in demand for financial services and a decrease in credit card spending, which may in turn materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect the results of our operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, with BancoEstado (a public-sector bank) and with large department stores that make consumer loans to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower-middle to middle income segments of the Chilean population and the small and medium-sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks, and competition in these segments is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments have declined. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from the lower-middle to middle income consumer market segments and for small and medium-sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, our net interest margins may not be maintained at their current levels. We believe that our 10 Table of Contents principal competitors are Banco de Crédito e Inversiones, or BCI, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, Chile S.A., or BBVA, and Scotiabank Sudamericano, but we also face competition from larger banks such as Banco de Chile and Banco Santander, among others. We also face competition from non-bank and non-finance competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards and consumer loans. Non-bank competition from large department stores has become increasingly significant in the consumer lending sector. Since 2001, three new private sector banks affiliated with Chile’s largest department stores have initiated operations mainly as consumer and medium-sized corporate niche banks. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to loans and credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products and mortgage loans. Banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds in Chile, and the insurance sales business has seen rapid growth. Nevertheless, non-banking competition, especially department stores, may be able to engage in some types of advertising and promotion in which, by virtue of Chilean banking rules and regulations, we are prohibited from engaging. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to, among other things, consolidation in the industry. In 2002 Banco Santiago and Banco Santander-Chile, the then second and third largest private banks in Chile, respectively, merged to become Chile’s largest bank. In 2002, Banco de Chile and Banco de A. Edwards, then the third and fifth largest private banks in Chile respectively, merged to become the second largest Chilean bank. In 2004, BCI purchased 99.9% of the shares of Banco Conosur, becoming the third largest private bank in Chile. In 2007, Scotiabank Sudamericano acquired 100% of Banco Desarrollo and in 2008, Banco de Chile and Citibank Chile were authorized to merge operations. Consolidation, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate and increasing our costs of operation. Our allowances for impairment losses may not be adequate to cover the future actual losses to our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for impairment losses on loans and other assets was Ch$99,270 million, and the ratio of our allowance for impairment losses to total loans was 1.9%. The amount of allowances is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for impairment losses on loans and other assets require recalibration, which can lead to increased provision expense. We believe our allowance is adequate as of the date hereof for all known losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates, our allowance for impairment losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional provisions for impairment losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans and subsequent loan losses. A substantial number of our customers consists of individuals and small and medium-sized companies (those with annual sales between Ch$600 million and Ch$5,999 million). As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small and medium-sized companies and individuals. Our business results relating to our individual and small and medium-sized company customers are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy, including increases in unemployment, than our business from large corporations and high-income individuals. For example, unemployment directly affects the capacity of individuals to obtain and repay consumer loans. Consequently, in the future we may experience higher levels of past due loans, which could result in higher provisions for loan losses. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our loan portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. At December 31, 2009, our past due loans were Ch$41,672 million, which resulted in a past due loans to total loans ratio of 0.8%. We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems are free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. In addition, the quality of our loan portfolio may also deteriorate due to various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as the macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. If such deterioration were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The value of the collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. The value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable in the current economic climate and this may affect us as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgages loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional provisions to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there are certain provisions under Chilean law that may affect our ability to foreclose or liquidate residential mortgages if the real estate in question has been declared as “family property” by a court. If any party occupying the real estate files a petition with the court requesting that such real estate be declared as family property, our ability to foreclose may be very limited. The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009, the compounded annual growth rate of our gross loan portfolio was 26.8% in nominal terms to Ch$5,011, 656 million. Our business strategy seeks to grow profitably while increasing the size of our loan portfolio. The growth of our loan portfolio (particularly in the lower-middle to middle income consumer and small and medium-sized corporate business segments) may expose us, in an economic downturn, to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish proportionately higher levels of provisions for loan losses, which offset the increased income that we can expect to receive as the loan portfolio grows. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same rate. The current economic turmoil may lead to a contraction in our loan portfolio. There can be no assurance that our loan portfolio will continue to grow at similar rates to the historical growth rate. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. The continued economic turmoil could materially adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers as well as lead to a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment. All this could in turn lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, Dicom (a Chilean nationwide credit bureau) and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile, our assessment of the credit risks associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources and our internal resources, which may not be effective. As a result, our ability to effectively manage our credit risk may be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility. Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income. In 2008 and 2009, our ratio of net interest income to total operating incomes was 77.6 % and 65.5%, respectively. Changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities leading to a reduction in our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Over the period from December 31, 1998 to December 31, 2008, yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day note as reported on those dates moved from 13.49% to 8.18%, with a high of 13.59%. This benchmark rate began to rise in the latter part of 2005 and through 2006, 2007 and 2008, reaching a high of 5.21% and a low of 4.39% in 2006, a high of 6.15% and a low of 4.61% in 2007, and a high of 8.36% and a low of 6.50% in 2008. Between January 1, 2009 and May 31, 2009, this rate began to decrease and reached a high of 6.74% in January 2009 and a low of 1.20% in May 2009. During 2008, we began to increase our investments in available-for-sale instruments as our current strategy is to build a profitable medium-term portfolio. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, we had Ch$576,478 million and Ch$737,162 million, respectively, in financial investments available-for-sale. Any volatility in interest rates could adversely affect our business, our future financial performance and the price of our securities. 12 Table of Contents Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and an adverse effect on our revenues. Deposits and other term deposits are our primary sources of funding, which represents 56% of our liabilities. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking system, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring high funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may affect our access to funding. Chilean regulations impose restrictions on the share of assets that a Chilean pension fund management company (Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones, or an AFP) may allocate to a single issuer, which is currently 7% per fund managed by an AFP (including any securities issued by the issuer and any bank deposits with the issuer). If the exposure of an AFP to a single issuer exceeds the 7% limit, the AFP is required to reduce its exposure below the limit within three years. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate exposure of AFPs to us was approximately Ch$36,402 million (US$71.7 million) or 3.86% of their total assets. If the exposure of any AFP to us exceeds the regulatory limit, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. Recently approved legislation in Chile (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2) relaxed the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2009, the limit on making investments abroad was 60%. This limit was increased from 55% as of August 3, 2009 and will gradually increase to 80% in 2011. As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. As of December 31, 2009, 36.4% of our time deposits were from AFPs. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy. Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and paid-in capital and reserves (“basic capital”) of at least 3% of total assets, net of required loan loss allowances. We are currently required to maintain a minimum regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of 10%. As of December 31, 2009, the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, was 13.9%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: · the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business; · the failure to increase our capital correspondingly; · losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality; · declines in the value of our investment instrument portfolio; · changes in accounting rules; and · changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. Our business is highly dependent on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems. Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we do not operate all of our redundant systems on a real time basis and cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, or intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade 13 Table of Contents information technology systems effectively or on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience operational problems or errors. We, like all large financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurances that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Banking regulations may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. During the Chilean financial crisis of 1982 and 1983, the Central Bank and the Chilean Superintendency of Banks strictly controlled the funding, lending and general business matters of the banking industry in Chile. Pursuant to the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, engage in certain businesses other than commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and the financial strength of the bank. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, asset management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks to deny new banking licenses. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. However, since June 1, 2002, the Central Bank has allowed banks to pay interest on checking accounts. Currently, there are no applicable restrictions on the interest that may be paid on checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay interest on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to regulatory inspections and examinations. We are also subject to various inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO CHILE The recent earthquake in Chile is likely to adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio in segments of the Chilean economy that have been negatively affected and, as a result, is likely to negatively affect our results of operations. Chile lies on the Nazca tectonic plate, making it one of the world’s most seismically active regions. Chile has been adversely affected by powerful earthquakes in the past, including an 8.0 magnitude earthquake that struck Santiago in 1985 and a 9.5 magnitude earthquake in 1960 which was the largest earthquake ever recorded. On February 27, 2010, an 8.8 magnitude earthquake struck central Chile. The quake epicenter was located 200 miles southwest of Santiago and 70 miles north of Concepción, Chile’s second largest city. The regions of Bió Bió and Maule were the most severely affected regions and Concepción, was the most affected city, with its infrastructure and numerous buildings severely damaged. The coastal area of Concepción, including the neighboring cities Talcahuano and Penco, were hit by a tsunami shortly after the earthquake that significantly damaged port facilities. Several cities in the Maule region, including its capital city of Talca, were also seriously affected by the earthquake. 14 Table of Contents The earthquake and its aftershocks, as well as tsunamis along adjacent coastal waters, caused severe damage to Chile’s infrastructure, including roads, bridges, ports and Santiago’s international airport. Although the earthquake affected many buildings, less than 3% of Chile’s buildings suffered some damaged. The principal reason is due to Chile having the one of the strictest building requirements in the world. On March 12, 2010, President Piñera estimated that preliminary assessments of reconstruction costs could total approximately US$30 billion. However, the total cost is estimated in US$ 25 billion. Broken down, approximately US$9.3 billion should be paid by the public sector, US$6.7 billion by the private sector and the rest by insurance companies. The impact in CorpBanca was slighter than expected as we said before. An example of this is that the increase in provision for loan losses in commercial loans represented only 0.4% of our provisions for loan losses. This is mainly explained because we have low exposure in the VII and VIII region, because of our meticulous risk process and our diversified loan portfolio. More than 95% of our mortgage loans had insurance. If we consider our own infrastructure, of our 110 branches, 94% were operating normally after the earthquake. In the beginning of April, 2010 all branches were reopened (two of our branches in Talcahuano disappeared with the tsunami and their operations were transferred to Concepción, which is close to that city). As a result of the earthquake, our branches in Talcahuano will have to be reconstructed as a result of the tsunami. We are assessing the structural damage to our CorpBanca and Banco Condell branches in Concepción. Of our 324 ATMs, 68% were operating normally after the earthquake. The inoperative machines were mainly because of electricity problems, so in a few days they were working again. Our systems never stopped functioning during the earthquake as a result of the our business continuity planning (BCP). Additionally, our web page was the only Chilean bank web page that never stopped functioning. We offered a bonus of Ch$300,000 to 294 of our employees that sustained damage to their homes. We also offered loans of loans between Ch$500,000 and Ch$1,000,000 to the same employees. Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile and other emerging markets. A substantial amount of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. The Chilean economy has been influenced, to varying degrees, by economic conditions in other emerging market countries. Changes in Chilean economic growth in the future or future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including further consequences of economic difficulties in Brazil, Argentina and other emerging markets or a deceleration in the economic growth of Asian or other developed nations to which Chile exports a majority of its goods, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. According to data published by the Central Bank, the Chilean economy grew at a rate of 3.2% and decreased by 1.9% in 2008, and 2009, respectively. Historically, lower economic growth has adversely affected the overall asset quality of the Chilean banking system and our loan portfolio. Below is a detail of the of the risk index of the banks comprising the Chilean financial system according to information published by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks: Year Risk Index December 31, 2008(1) 1.69 % December 31, 2009 (1) 2.43 % (1) As of January 1, 2008, the Chilean Superintendency of Banks publishes monthly consolidated financial information. Prior to 2008, the Chilean Superintendency of Banks published unconsolidated information. Index includes contingent loans and allowances. See “Item 4. Information of the Company—Business Overview—Selected Statistical Information—Analysis of Our Loan Classification—Risk Index” for a definition of “risk index.” Our results of operations and financial condition could also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. For instance, the devaluation of the Mexican peso in December 1994 set off an economic crisis in Mexico that negatively affected the market value of securities in many countries throughout Latin America. The crisis in the Asian markets, beginning in July 1997, resulted in sharp devaluations of other Asian currencies and negatively affected markets throughout Asia, as well as many markets in Latin America, including Chile. Similar adverse consequences resulted 15 Table of Contents from the 1998 crisis in Russia and the devaluation of the Brazilian real in 1999. In part due to the Asian and Russian crises, the Chilean stock market declined significantly in 1998 to levels equivalent to 1994. In September 2008, the housing crisis in the United States sparked a series of financial institution failures throughout the globe. This resulted in a liquidity crisis and a reduction in growth of the global economy as financial institutions tightened risk policies and reduced lending to banks, corporations and individuals. Consequently, Chile was affected by a strong decrease in growth during the fourth quarter of 2008 as its trading partners entered into recession affecting local corporate sales and plans for investment. This led to a revaluation in 2008 of local securities which significantly decreased the value of the Chilean stock market. In 2009, the crisis had its impact in the economy, with GDP growth falling 1.5%, deflation of 1.4% and unemployment over 8.5%. However, despite the negative macroeconomic figures, the Chilean stock market had an excellent year. The Santiago Stock Exchange Index of the 40 most-traded stocks (IPSA) increased 46% during 2009. CorpBanca’s stock wasn’t the exception, ending the year with 79% of return. Current economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits represented 58.7% and 56.4% of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2008, and 2009, respectively. Large-denominations in time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. The current liquidity crisis triggered by the U.S. subprime market has impacted global markets and affected sources of funding, including time deposits. As of December 31, 2009, our investment portfolio did not contain instruments (i) backed by, or otherwise related to, U.S. subprime mortgages or (ii) with exposure to monoline financial guarantors. Although our results of operations and financial position have not suffered a significant impact as a consequence of the recent credit market instability in the U.S. and the liquidity available in the Chilean market has permitted us to fund out operations and maintain our regular business activities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue funding our business or, if so, maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Recent Developments in the Banking Industry.” Economic problems in Argentina and Brazil may have an adverse effect on the Chilean economy and on our results of operations and the share price of our ADSs and shares. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Latin America, especially in Argentina and Brazil. If Argentina’s economic environment significantly deteriorates or does not improve, the economy in Chile, as both a neighboring country and a trading partner, could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years. If it had cuts in gas exports from Argentina to Chile, as it has been happened in prior years, could also adversely affect economic growth in Chile. Our business could be affected by an economic downturn in Brazil. This could result in the need for us to increase our allowances for loan losses, thus affecting our financial results, our results of operations and the price of our securities. The crises and political uncertainties in other Latin American countries could also have an adverse effect on Chile, the price of our securities or our business. Deceleration of economic growth in Asia, the United States and other developed nations may have an adverse effect on the Chilean economy and on our results of operations and the share price of our ADSs and shares. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States and other developed nations, including the global economic world crisis that still affects part of the world, especially Europe. If these nations’ economic environments deteriorate, the economy in Chile could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years. In 2009, our share price increased from Ch$2.517 per share to Ch$4.009 per share during 2009. This was a result of the of a good year in general terms of the Chilean stock market and the impressive results we showed in the middle of the world financial crisis. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our shares and ADSs. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our securities. The peso has been subject to significant devaluations in the past and could be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. At December 31, 2008 the peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 28.0% as compared to 2007. In 2009 the peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 20.4% as compared to 2008. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate gaps. Entering into forward exchange transactions enables us to reduce the negative impact of material gaps between the balances of our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, the gap between foreign currency denominated assets and foreign currency denominated liabilities was Ch$(169,254) million, and Ch$ (281,211) million, respectively, although this gap is covered by forwards. 16 Table of Contents We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate gaps. Regulations that limit such gaps may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate gaps will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service our foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate gaps, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Trading transactions in Chile of the shares of common stock underlying our ADSs are denominated in pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our shares of common stock are received in pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will be reduced. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. Inflation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although Chilean inflation has moderated in recent years , Chile has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and, indirectly, the value of our securities. The following table shows the annual rate of inflation as measured by changes in the Chilean Consumer Price Index, or CPI, and as reported by the Chilean Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas, or the Chilean National Institute of Statistics, during the last two years ended December 31, 2009. Inflation (CPI) Year (in percentages) 2008 7.1 % 2009 (1.4 )% Source: Chilean National Institute of Statistics. There can be no assurance that our operating results will not be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, or that Chilean inflation will not change significantly from the current level. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the Chilean Superintendency of Banks unaudited consolidated and unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any related footnote disclosure on a monthly basis. As of January 2008, the statements have to be prepared in accordance with Circular No. 3,410 “Compendium of Accounting Standards” and the rules of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. The Chilean Superintendency of Banks also makes summary financial information available within three to four weeks of receipt. In January 2008, Chilean banks began a process of applying IFRS in certain presentation and disclosure requirements as required by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. These changes involve a reclassification of certain balance sheet and income statement accounts and represent the first steps towards convergence to IFRS. Our consolidated annual financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 have been prepared under IFRS in order to comply with the SEC requirements. This annual report is prepared under the one-time accommodation provided by the SEC to allow, for a limited period, foreign private issuers that prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS to present only one year of comparative information in their first IFRS financial statements. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Transition to IFRS” and note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included herein for a description of the transition to IFRS. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open, or publicly listed, companies such as ours, have as a principal objective promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some important respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Our status as a foreign private issuer allows us to follow alternate standards to the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies with securities listed on the exchange. We currently follow Chilean practice concerning corporate governance and intend to continue to do so. 17 Table of Contents Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Board Practices—Comparative Summary of Differences in Corporate Governance Standards” for a comparison of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange and Chilean practice. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls” for a discussion of the types of information required to be provided. Owners of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be converted into U.S. dollars and distributed net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean laws or regulations, the depositary were unable to convert pesos to U.S. dollars, investors may receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in pesos. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends could be imposed in the future and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. Increase in income tax rate. Like all Chilean companies, we are subject to income tax at a rate of 17% of our taxable income. Since the earthquake occurred, the Chilean government has found it necessary to raise funds in order to finance the reconstruction of the affected areas. As a result, the income tax rate is scheduled to temporarily increase to 20% in 2011 and will be reduced to 18.5% in 2012, returning to 17% in 2013. This temporary income tax increase has approved in the Chamber of Deputies and currently is being reviewed in the Chamber of Senates. Additionally, a reduction in the stamp tax rate has been proposed. For 2009, the stamp tax rates were reduced to 0%, and, for the first semester of 2010, the rate is 50% of the normal rate which is 0.1% for each month or fraction thereof, capped at 1.2%. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our shares and ADSs. A lack of liquidity in the markets may develop for our ADSs, which would negatively affect the ability of the holders to sell our ADSs or the price at which holders of our ADSs will be able to sell them. Future trading prices of our ADSs will depend on many factors including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and the market for similar securities. Our common stock underlying the ADSs is listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic Exchange, although the trading market for the common stock is small by international standards. As of June 21, 2010, we had 226,909,290,577 shares of common stock . The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. In addition, according to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on the Chilean stock exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. Furthermore, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it is deemed necessary. These and other factors may substantially limit your ability to sell the common stock underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. Certain actions by our principal shareholder may have an adverse effect on the future market price of our ADSs and shares. The individual controller of Corp Group Banking S.A. is Mr. Alvaro Saieh Bendeck. As of June 21, 2010, together with his family, Mr. Saieh Bendeck maintains in an indirect ownership of 75.64% of our company. In addition, Mr. Saieh Bendeck with his spouse are indirect holders of 100% of the ownership rights of Compañía Inmobiliaria y de Inversiones Saga S.A. The sale or disposition by Mr. Saieh Bendeck of our shares or ADSs that he indirectly owns, or the perception in the marketplace that such a sale or disposition may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our shares on the Santiago Stock Exchange and, consequently, the market price of the ADSs. 18 Table of Contents You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Corporations Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the Securities Act were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. Since we are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to such rights and the common stock, you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed and an applicable exemption is not available, the depositary will attempt to sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof, after deducting its expenses and fees, if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary. Under Chilean law, a shareholder is required to be registered in our shareholders’ registry at least five business days before a shareholders’ meeting in order to vote at such meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement and accordingly is not entitled to vote at shareholders’ meetings because the shares underlying the ADSs will be registered in the name of the depositary. While a holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs in accordance with the procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In certain instances, a discretionary proxy may vote our shares underlying the ADSs if a holder of ADSs does not instruct the depositary with respect to voting. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We are organized under the laws of Chile, and nearly all of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in Chile. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Chile, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. In order for ADS holders to enforce, in Chilean courts, judgments obtained in the U.S. courts against us or our directors and executive officers based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, an exequatur (i.e., recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment) must be obtained; provided, however, that a U.S. court granted a final judgment in the action based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Such exequatur shall be obtained in accordance with Chilean civil procedure law currently in force, and consequently, subject to the satisfaction of certain factors. The most important of these factors are the existence of reciprocity treaties between the countries, the absence of a conflicting judgment by a Chilean court relating to the same parties and arising from the same facts and circumstances and the Chilean courts’ determination that the U.S. courts had jurisdiction, that process was appropriately served on the defendant, that the enforcement is in full force in the foreign country and that enforcement would not violate Chilean public policy. Failure to satisfy any of such requirements may result in non-enforcement of your rights. 