ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to obtain the necessary FDA clearance for our Magellan Robotic System, NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories we will be unable to commercially distribute and market the system as planned. Our Magellan Robotic System, NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed, which we refer to as our Vascular System, have received CE mark approval for sale in the European Union. We will be not able to sell our Vascular System for clinical use outside of the European Union until we receive regulatory approval or clearance to do so. We submitted a 510(k) pre-market notification to the FDA on April 11, 2011 for our Vascular System. On September 7, 2011, we received a letter from the FDA responding to our application. The FDA’s initial response requested additional information but did not request additional clinical cases and did not raise questions regarding the 510(k) pathway for the device. On February 6, 2012, we responded to the FDA’s questions and provided the results of additional pre-clinical testing. The FDA or other regulatory authorities could ask us to supplement our submissions, collect more non-clinical data than requested to date, conduct clinical trials or engage in other time-consuming or costly actions, or it could simply deny our applications. Seeking new clearances or approvals could also result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities reviewing prior submissions and modifying or revoking prior clearances or approvals. In addition, clearance or approval could be revoked or other restrictions imposed if post-market data demonstrates safety issues or lack of effectiveness. While we believe that the FDA clearance for our Magellan Robotic System, NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories can be expected in the second quarter of 2012, we cannot predict with certainty whether the data from our preclinical testing and other responses to the FDA will be sufficient to support clearance or how or when the FDA or other regulatory authorities will act with regard to our applications with respect to the Vascular System. If we are unable to obtain clearances for our proposed Vascular System on a timely basis, or at all, or on terms that are necessary for a successful product introduction, our financial condition and cash flow may be adversely affected, and our ability to grow may be limited. Successful commercialization of our new Vascular System is subject to a manufacturing, marketing, sales and customer service risks. We have not previously manufactured our Magellan Robotic System, NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories in commercial quantities and we may encounter unexpected manufacturing problems when 39 scaling up the production of these new products. While we have experience marketing and selling the Sensei Robotic System following its initial regulatory approvals in 2007, the marketing and sales effort for our Vascular System will involve different customers, value propositions and purchasing processes. The time needed to obtain market acceptance of a new product such as the Vascular System is highly variable and as a result our commercialization plans may be prolonged. While we have prepared new training materials specifically for our Vascular System, these materials have not been used extensively and only a limited number of clinical cases have been performed with our Vascular System. As a result, with greater physician experience with our Vascular System, we may identify areas where further training is required. In addition, commercial introduction of new products sometimes results in the identification of latent or new product defects or quality issues that were not evident in the testing of the products. If we encounter any of these new product introduction issues with our Vascular System, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not be able to further develop our Vascular System as planned. We intend to further develop our Vascular System, consisting of our Magellan Robotic System, our NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories. Due to the advanced electrical, mechanical, and software capabilities of this new robotic platform, we may encounter challenges in designing, engineering and manufacturing future enhancements to the platform, which may lead to compatibility obstacles with operating room and catheter laboratory layouts, equipment quality or performance issues, unmet customer expectations regarding features or functionality or other defects in future versions of the platform. Any such difficulties could result in delays in our submissions to regulatory agencies, delays in achieving or the failure to achieve additional regulatory approvals or clearances for enhancements to the system, lack of physician adoption of our system, higher than expected service claims, litigation and negative press coverage. We have had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified or develop in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In assessing the results of an investigation conducted by the audit committee of our Board in 2009 as well as the internal review and recertification procedures performed for purposes of the preparation and certification of our restated consolidated financial statements in November 2009, our management identified material weaknesses as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 that resulted in errors in our financial reporting with regard to our accounting for revenue recognition with respect to the sale of our Sensei Robotic Catheter Systems. Such errors resulted in a restatement of our audited annual financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 and the unaudited interim financial statements as of and for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2009, March 31, 2009, September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008 and March 31, 2008. Additionally, there were material weaknesses that resulted in audit adjustments in connection with the audit of our December 31, 2009 financial statements. Our evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures in association with our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial statements as of December 31, 2009 determined that we did not maintain effective controls because we did not maintain an effective control environment, we did not maintain effective information and communication, we did not maintain effective controls related to the process for ensuring completeness and accuracy of our accounting for revenue and did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for complex arrangements. We have adopted various remedial measures to improve our disclosure controls and procedures. A more detailed description of 40 these previously-reported material weaknesses and the remedial measures adopted is set forth in Part II Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. We evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures in association with our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 and determined that our internal control was effective as of that date. We cannot assure you, however, that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not exist in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our periodic reports, including the financial statements included in such reports. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a significant deficiency or material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could lead to a decline in our stock price. We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit and two shareholder derivative lawsuits that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and certain of our current and former executive officers and directors, are defendants in a federal securities class action lawsuit, a Federal shareholder derivative lawsuit, and a State shareholder derivative lawsuit. These lawsuits are described in Part I Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations by these lawsuits and we may incur significant expenses associated with the defense of these lawsuits (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors and our underwriters who may be or become parties to such action.) Depending on the outcome of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay material damages and fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, our ability to meet our debt obligations and, consequently, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Prior to resolution of these matters, they will result in substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, and will divert management’s attention from our business. In addition, there is the potential for additional stockholder litigation and governmental investigations, the possibility of governmental enforcement actions and the possibility that the restatement could impact our relationship with customers and our ability to generate revenue. Continuing negative publicity may adversely affect our business. As a result of our audit committee-led investigation in 2009, restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 and the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, September 30, 2008, March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009 and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. While we have settled the SEC’s investigation of our company, negative publicity associated with our company may continue as the SEC pursues claims against two of our former officers. This negative publicity may have an effect on the terms under which some customers, lenders, landlords and suppliers are willing to continue to do business with us and could affect our financial performance and condition. We also believe that this negative publicity could potentially damage our ability to recruit and retain employees. Should we continue to be the subject of negative publicity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 41 Potential indemnification obligations to our current and former directors and officers and contractual indemnification obligations to underwriters of our securities offerings could adversely affect us. Several individuals who are current members of our Board of Directors and several former officers and former members of our Board of Directors are the defendants in pending lawsuits related to the restatement of our financial statements, two former officers are defendants in litigation commenced by the SEC, and other current or former officers, employees or directors may also be named as defendants in those or other lawsuits. Under Delaware law, our charter documents and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and employees and directors in relation to these matters. In addition, we have contractual indemnification obligations to the underwriters of our April 2008, April 2009 and April 2010 public offerings of shares of our common stock. These indemnification obligations to directors, officers, employees and our underwriters are generally unlimited in nature and some of these indemnification obligations may not be covered by our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. If we incur significant uninsured indemnity obligations, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are a company with a limited history of operations, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We are a medical device company with a limited operating history and first recognized revenues in the second quarter of 2007. Prior to the second quarter of 2007, we were a development stage company. We have been engaged in research and product development since our inception in late 2002. Our Sensei Robotic Catheter System, or Sensei system, and our corresponding disposable Artisan catheter received FDA clearance in May 2007 for commercialization to facilitate manipulation, positioning and control of certain mapping catheters during electrophysiology procedures. We also received the CE Mark in Europe for our Sensei system in September 2006, for our Artisan catheter in May 2007, for our Lynx catheter in September 2010, for our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011 and for our NorthStar Robotic Catheter in September 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we have also received regulatory approvals related to our Sensei system in Russia, Thailand, Taiwan, Australia and India. The future success of our business will depend on our ability to design and obtain regulatory approval for new products, manufacture and assemble our current and future products in sufficient quantities in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and at lower costs, increase product sales and successfully support and service our products, all of which we may be unable to do. We have a limited history of operations upon which you can evaluate our business and our operating expenses have increased significantly. Our lack of a significant operating history also limits your ability to make a comparative evaluation of us, our products and our prospects. If we are unable to successfully operate our business, our business and financial condition will be harmed. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses through at least the next year, we may not be able to raise additional financing to fund future losses and we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. We have experienced substantial net losses since our inception in late 2002. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $274.8 million. We have funded our operations to date principally from the sale of our securities and through issuance of debt. In 2008, we both issued equity and entered into a new debt facility and, in 2009 and 2010, we issued additional equity. In 2011, we issued equity and entered in a new debt facility. In order to meet our anticipated cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities, enter into additional collaborative, licensing or other arrangements or enter into debt or other credit facilities. If we seek additional funding in the future by selling additional equity or debt securities or entering into debt or credit facilities, such additional funding may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, may contain unfavorable terms or may not be available on any terms. Volatility in the global financial and credit markets may limit our ability to raise additional funds. We cannot guarantee that future equity or debt financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, even if financing is available, the cost to us 42 may be significantly higher than in the past. We will continue to face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or continue to worsen. In particular, our ability to access the capital markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. This could leave us without adequate financial resources to fund our operations as presently conducted or as we plan to conduct them in the future. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to adopt additional cost-cutting measures, including additional reductions in its work force, reducing the scope of, delaying or eliminating some or all of our planned research, development and commercialization activities and/or reducing marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products. Also, we could be required to license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves or on terms that are less attractive than they might otherwise be. Any of these factors could materially harm our business and may negatively impact our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. We expect to incur substantial additional net losses for at least the next year as we continue our development and commercialization efforts on our Magellan Robotic System and NorthStar Robotic Catheter, continue our manufacturing, marketing and sales operations to commercialize our products and seek additional regulatory clearances. We expect our reported research and development expenses to increase in 2012 as compared to 2011 levels as we will not receive reimbursements from Philips in 2012 as we did in 2011. Because we may not be successful in significantly increasing sales of our products, the extent of our future losses and the timing of achieving sustained profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve sustained profitable operations. If we require more time than we expect to generate significant revenue and achieve sustained profitability, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we achieve significant revenues, we may never become profitable on a sustained basis or we may choose to pursue a strategy of increasing market penetration and presence at the expense of profitability. If Philips is unable to develop or license new products or applications for the FOSSL technology, or such products are not commercially viable, we may not realize the full benefits of our agreements with Philips which would harm our results of operations and could delay and or impair our ability monetize that technology. The realization of the full potential benefits of our agreements with Philips, including the receipt of any of the up to $78.0 million in future payments associated with the successful commercialization by Philips or its collaborators of products containing the FOSSL technology, requires the development of new products and applications of technology that are subject to design, engineering and manufacturing challenges, potential safety and regulatory issues that could delay, suspend or terminate clinical studies, regulatory approvals or sales, and our reliance on third parties to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, market and sell products containing FOSSL technology. Approximately two-thirds of the up to $78.0 million of potential future payments could arise from Philips’ sublicensing the FOSSL technology, but Philips has no obligations to do so. Under certain circumstances, we have the right to reacquire certain of the rights licensed to Philips for an amount which in the aggregate would be greater than the upfront payment amounts received by us from Philips in connection with the agreements related to the FOSSL technology, however, there can be no assurance that we would have the capital resources to exercise such rights or that we could find another commercial partner or develop commercially such technologies. In addition, Philips’ sales of products containing the FOSSL technology could be sufficient to result in our not having any rights to reacquire any of the rights licensed to Philips, yet too low to result in any royalty payments to us. If any of these events occurred, we would be unable to realize the full financial benefits of our agreements with Philips and may be delayed or unable to monetize the FOSSL technology in other areas, harming our research and development efforts and adversely affecting our business. 43 We may be unable to complete our clinical trial for the treatment of atrial fibrillation or other future trials, or we may experience significant delays in completing our clinical trials, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our Sensei system for expanded uses and impair our financial position. We have received IDE approval to investigate the use of our Artisan catheter in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in a clinical study designed to support the expansion of our current labeling in the U.S. beyond mapping. The study will involve approximately 300 patients and involves the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We enrolled our first patient in May 2010. We intend to complete enrollment by the end of 2013, but we may modify the timing of planned enrollment in the future to minimize expenditures. The study includes a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. Enrollment of patients in the trial could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • obtaining additional institutional review board approval to conduct the trial at prospective sites; and • obtaining sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the willingness of patients to randomize to manual catheter control or participate in a clinical trial, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. In addition, the completion of the trial, and any future clinical trials, could be delayed, suspended or terminated for several reasons, including: • ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our preclinical results or clinical trial or requests for supplemental information with respect to our preclinical results or clinical trial results; • our failure or inability to conduct the clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • sites participating in the trial may drop out of the trial, which may require us to engage new sites or petition the FDA for an expansion of the number of sites that are permitted to be involved in the trial; • patients may not enroll in, remain in or complete the clinical trial at the rates we expect; • patients in either the control or test arm of the trial may experience serious adverse events or side effects during the trial, which, whether or not related to our products, could cause the FDA or other regulatory authorities to place the clinical trial on hold; and • clinical investigators may not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices. If our clinical trials are delayed it will take us longer to commercialize a product for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and generate revenues from such product. Moreover, our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we complete our trial for the treatment of atrial fibrillation or other clinical trials, these trials may not produce results that are sufficient to support approval of a PMA or 510(k) application. We will consider our Sensei system to be effective if the trial for the treatment of atrial fibrillation demonstrates non-inferiority to manual control of the NaviStar Thermocool catheter, but there is a risk that, even if we achieve our trial endpoints, the FDA may not approve our Sensei system for use in the treatment of atrial fibrillation. In addition, there is a risk that the FDA may require us to conduct a larger or longer clinical trial, submit additional follow-up data, or engage in other costly and time consuming activities that may delay the FDA’s approval of the Sensei system for use in atrial fibrillation. Although we plan to file a 510(k) application based on data from our trial for the use of Sensei system in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, the FDA may 44 require a us to file a PMA, which is more time consuming and costly. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support a PMA or 510(k) application, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, or any other intended treatment, and generate revenue or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, our efforts to commercialize our systems for atrial fibrillation or vascular disease, we may not succeed or may encounter delays which could significantly harm our ability to generate revenue. Even if we obtain U.S. regulatory approval to market our Sensei system for uses other than mapping electrophysiology procedures, such as for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, or our Magellan Robotic System for the treatment of vascular disease, our ability to generate revenue will depend upon the successful commercialization of our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System for such indications. Our efforts to commercialize our Sensei system or our Magellan Robotic System may not succeed for a number of reasons, including: • our systems may not be accepted in the marketplace for other treatments by physicians; • we may not be able to sell our systems and associated catheters at prices that allow us to meet the revenue targets necessary to generate revenue necessary to achieve profitability; • we, or the investigators of our products, may not be able to have information on the outcome of the trials published in medical journals; • the availability and perceived advantages and disadvantages of alternative treatments; • any rapid technological change may make our products obsolete; • we may not be able to have our systems or catheters manufactured in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; • we may not have adequate financial or other resources to complete the development and commercialization of our systems; and • we may be sued for infringement of intellectual property rights and could be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products. If we are not successful in the commercialization of our Sensei system for uses other than for mapping in electrophysiology procedures or the development and commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System, we may never achieve sustained profitability and may be forced to cease operations. We have a debt facility with Oxford Finance LLC and Silicon Valley Bank that requires us to meet certain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. On December 8, 2011 we entered into a $30.0 million loan and security agreement with Oxford Finance LLC, or Oxford, Silicon Valley Bank and Oxford as the collateral agent, or Collateral Agent, with $20.0 million of the loan provided by Oxford and $10.0 million provided by Silicon Valley Bank. We are obligated to pay interest only on the loan through December 31, 2012, provided that the interest only period will be extended through June 30, 2013 if we receive approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for our Magellan Robotic System prior to December 31, 2012. We will make payments on the loan through January 1, 2016. At our option, we may prepay all of the outstanding principal balance, subject to a pre-payment fee of (a) 3.00% of the principal amount of the loan then outstanding if our prepayment is made on before the second anniversary of funding the loan or (b) 1.50% of the principal amount of the loan then outstanding if our prepayment is made after the second anniversary of funding the loan. The loan is collateralized by substantially all of our assets now 45 owned or hereafter acquired, other than our intellectual property, and all proceeds and products thereof, and we agreed to a negative pledge on our intellectual property. Two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AorTx, Inc. and Hansen Medical International, Inc., entered into an Unconditional Guaranty and a Security Agreement with the Collateral Agent pursuant to which they guaranteed our obligations under the loan with a first priority security interest in their assets, excluding such subsidiaries’ intellectual property. We additionally agreed to pledge to Oxford and Silicon Valley Bank shares of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries as collateral for the loan. We are also subject to certain affirmative and negative covenants, including a requirement to maintain a certain level of liquidity. The loan also limits our ability to do any of the following: • undergo certain change of control events; • convey, sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of certain of our assets; • create, incur, assume, or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; • grant certain liens; • pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • make payments on any subordinated debt; • enter into transactions with any of our affiliates outside of the ordinary course of business; or permit our subsidiaries to do the same. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, we are required to maintain with SVB our primary deposit accounts, securities accounts and commodities, and to do the same for each of our domestic subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. In the event we were to violate any covenants or if Oxford or Silicon Valley Bank believes that we have violated any covenants, and such violations are not cured pursuant to the terms of the loan and security agreement, we would be in default under the loan and security agreement, which would entitle Oxford or Silicon Valley Bank to exercise their remedies, including the right to accelerate the debt, upon which we may be required to repay all amounts then outstanding under the loan and security agreement. Complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy. Credit, financial market and general economic conditions could delay or prevent potential customers from purchasing our products, which would adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operation. The sale of our systems often represents a significant capital purchase for our customers and many customers finance their purchase of our systems through a credit facility or other financing. If prospective customers that need to finance their capital purchases are not able to access the credit or capital markets on terms that they consider acceptable, they may decide to postpone or cancel a potential purchase of one of our systems. Potential customers with limited capital budgets may decide to spend those dollars on other technologies rather than on our products. Also, even customers with sufficient financial resources to make such purchases without resorting to the credit and capital markets may be less likely to make capital purchases during periods when they view the overall economic conditions unfavorably or with uncertainty. Many potential customers have delayed making a decision to purchase a Sensei system, which has significantly impacted our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the macroeconomic environment and the deterioration in confidence and spending in the United States and, increasingly, in Europe, have impacted and will continue to impact potential customers and their decisions to purchase our products into the foreseeable future. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery, whether worldwide, regional or specific to our industry, nor the extent of its potential impact on our future sales, financial condition and results of operations. 46 We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience and capabilities, which could impair our ability to achieve sustained profitability. In the second quarter of 2007, we received clearance to market, sell and distribute our Sensei system for use in the mapping of electrophysiology procedures in the United States and Europe. We had no prior experience as a company in undertaking these efforts. We received CE Mark to market, sell and distribute our Magellan Robotic System in Europe in the third quarter of 2011. In the United States, we market our Sensei system and Artisan catheter through a direct sales force of regional sales employees, supported by clinical sales representatives who provide training, clinical support and other services to our customers. Our direct sales force competes against the experienced and well-funded sales organizations of our competitors. Our revenues will depend largely on the effectiveness of our sales force. We face significant challenges and risks related to our direct sales force and the marketing of our current and future products, including, among others: • the ability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of hospitals to purchase our system and catheters or physicians to use our system and catheters; • our ability to retain, properly motivate, recruit and train adequate numbers of qualified sales and marketing personnel; • the costs associated with an independent sales and marketing organization, hiring, maintaining and expanding an independent sales and marketing organization; and • our ability to promote our products effectively while maintaining compliance with government regulations and labeling restrictions with respect to the healthcare industry. Outside the United States, primarily in the European Union, we are establishing a combination of a direct sales force and distributors to market, sell and support our current and future products. If we fail to select and maintain appropriate distributors, appropriately disengage from unsuccessful distributors or effectively use our distributors or sales personnel and coordinate our efforts for distribution of our systems and catheters in the European Union or if their and our sales and marketing strategies are not effective in generating sales of our system, our revenues would be adversely affected and we may never become profitable on a sustained basis. We have limited experience in manufacturing and assembling our products and may encounter problems at our manufacturing facilities or otherwise experience manufacturing delays that could result in lost revenue or diminishing margins. We do not have significant experience in manufacturing, assembling or testing our current products on a commercial scale. In addition, for our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System, we subcontract the manufacturing of major components and complete the final assembly and testing of those components in-house. We face challenges in order to produce our Sensei system and disposable catheters effectively, to appropriately phase in new products such as the Magellan Robotic System and product designs, to efficiently utilize our manufacturing facility and to achieve planned manufacturing cost reductions. These challenges include equipment design and automation, material procurement, low or variable production yields on Artisan catheters and quality control and assurance. The costs resulting from these challenges and our relocation to a larger facility have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our gross margins and may result in significant fluctuations of gross margins from quarter to quarter. We may not successfully complete required manufacturing changes or planned improvements in manufacturing efficiency on a timely basis or at all. For example, as we were increasing our manufacturing capacity for Artisan catheters, we shipped a limited number in late 2007 and early 2008 that were later identified as having a potential leak. Although no patient is known or suspected to have experienced any consequences associated with this possible leak nor has it significantly impacted our business, these events were reported to the FDA in accordance with applicable regulations and we subsequently initiated a voluntary recall of the affected devices. This recall was closed in June 2008. Also, following the introduction of a new catheter in the fall of 2009, some of the new catheters experienced a leak in the flush assembly. Although no patient is known or suspected to have experienced any consequences associated with the new catheters, we 47 voluntarily recalled all of the catheters and reported the events to the FDA in accordance with applicable regulations. Subsequently, we returned to our prior design of the flush assembly. Any catheter redesign or other manufacturing issues may result in our being unable to meet the expected demand for our Artisan catheters or our Sensei system, maintain control over our expenses or otherwise successfully manage our manufacturing capabilities. If we are unable to satisfy demand for our Sensei system, Artisan catheters, Magellan Robotic System or NorthStar Robotic Catheter our ability to generate revenue could be impaired and hospitals may instead purchase, or physicians may use, our competitors’ products. Since our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System require the use of disposable Artisan catheters and NorthStar Robotic Catheters, respectively, our failure to meet demand for catheters from hospitals that have purchased our systems could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and damage our commercial reputation. In addition, all of our operations are conducted at our facilities leased in Mountain View, California. We could encounter problems at these facilities, which could delay or prevent us from manufacturing, assembling or testing our products or maintaining our manufacturing capabilities or otherwise conducting operations. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and on suppliers, and in one case, a single-source supplier, could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget, and could cause harm to our business and financial condition. We depend on third-party manufacturers to produce most of the components of our Sensei system and other current products, and have not entered into formal agreements with several of these third parties. We also depend on various third-party suppliers for various components we use in our Sensei systems and for our catheters and sheaths. For example, Force Dimension Sàrl, a single-source supplier, manufactures customized motion controllers that are a part of our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System. We also obtain the motors for our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System from a single supplier, Maxon Motor AG, from whom we purchase on a purchase order basis, and we generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. Additionally, in October 2007, we entered into a purchase agreement with Plexus Services Corp., or Plexus, under which Plexus will manufacture certain components for us in quantities determined by a non-binding forecast and by purchase orders. Our reliance on third parties involves a number of risks, including, among other things, the risk that: • suppliers may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in or prevent shipments of our products; • we may not be able to respond to unanticipated changes and increases in customer orders; • we may be subject to price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; • we may lose access to critical services and components, resulting in an interruption in the manufacture, assembly and shipment of our systems and other products; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; • our suppliers may wish to discontinue supplying goods or services to us; • we may not be able to find new or alternative components for our use or reconfigure our system and manufacturing processes in a timely manner if the components necessary for our system become unavailable; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. 48 If any of these risks materialize, it could significantly increase our costs and impact our ability to meet demand for our products. In addition, if these manufacturers or suppliers stop providing us with the components or services necessary for the operation of our business, we may not be able to identify alternative sources in a timely fashion. Any transition to alternative manufacturers or suppliers or a decision to discontinue our relationship with a current manufacturer or supplier could result in operational problems, increased expenses or write-down of capitalized assets that would adversely affect operating results and could delay the shipment of, or limit our ability to provide, our products. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into agreements with new manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms on a timely basis or at all. Additionally, obtaining components from a new supplier may require qualification of a new supplier in the form of a new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities and clearance or approval of the filing before we could resume purchasing components for inclusion in our products. Any disruptions in product supply may harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction, damage our reputation and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders by our customers. We currently purchase a number of the components for our Sensei system in foreign jurisdictions. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. If we fail to maintain necessary FDA clearances and CE marks for our medical device products, or if future clearances or approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to market a medical device is expensive and time-consuming and clearance or approval is never guaranteed and, even if granted, clearance or approval may be suspended or revoked. In May 2007, we received FDA clearance in the United States to commercialize our Sensei system and Artisan catheters only to facilitate manipulation, positioning and control, for collecting electrophysiological data within the heart atria with electro-anatomic mapping and recording systems. Because the FDA has determined that there is a reasonable likelihood that our products could be used by physicians for uses not encompassed by the scope of the present FDA clearance and that such uses may cause harm, we are required to label our products to state that their safety and effectiveness for use with cardiac ablation catheters in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation have not been established. Accordingly, the scope of the current label may be an obstacle to our ability to successfully market and sell our products in the United States to a broader group of potential customers. We will be required to seek a separate 510(k) clearance or PMA approval to market our Sensei system for uses other than those currently cleared by the FDA. We cannot assure you that the FDA would not impose a more burdensome level of premarket review on other intended uses or modifications to approved products. We plan to seek future approval of our Sensei system for other indications, including atrial fibrillation and other cardiac ablation procedures. We have received IDE approval to investigate the use of our Artisan catheter in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in a clinical study designed to support the expansion of our current labeling in the U.S. beyond mapping. The study will involve approximately 300 patients and involves the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We enrolled our first patient in May 2010. We intend to complete enrollment by the end of 2013, although we may modify the timing of planned enrollment in the future to minimize expenditures. The study will include a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. We cannot assure the timing or potential for success of those efforts. As noted above, we submitted a 510(k) pre-market notification application with the FDA on April 11, 2011 for our Vascular System. On September 7, 2011, we received a letter from the FDA responding to our application. The FDA’s initial response requested additional information but did not request additional clinical cases and did not raise questions regarding the 510(k) pathway for the device. On February 6, 2012, we responded to the FDA’s questions which response included the results of additional pre-clinical testing. 49 With regard to our Sensei system, our Magellan Robot System, or other products, the FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance of a 510(k), or PMA approval, for many reasons, including: • our inability to demonstrate safety or effectiveness to the FDA’s satisfaction; • the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval; • the facilities of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers may not meet applicable requirements; • our compliance with preclinical, clinical or other regulations; • our inability to meet the FDA’s statistical requirements or changes in statistical tests or significance levels the FDA requires for approval of a medical device, including ours; and • changes in the FDA approval policies, expectations with regard to the type or amount of scientific data required or adoption of new regulations may require additional data or additional clinical studies. Furthermore, in order to market our products outside of the United States, we will need to establish and comply with the numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. We received the CE Mark in Europe for our Sensei system in September 2006, for our Artisan catheters in May 2007, for our Lynx catheters in September 2010, for our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011 and for our NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan System in September 2011, but may be required to seek separate clearances from the European Union in order to market our products for any additional uses. Regulatory approvals may be difficult and costly to achieve, or may not be granted at all. If we are unable to maintain our regulatory clearances and obtain future clearances for our products, our financial condition and cash flow may be adversely affected, and our ability to grow domestically and internationally may be limited. If physicians and hospitals do not believe that our Sensei system and Artisan catheters are a viable alternative to existing mapping technologies used in atrial fibrillation and other cardiac ablation procedures, or if they do not believe that our Magellan Robotic System and NorthStar Robotic Catheter are a viable alternative for vascular diseases, they may choose not to use our products. We believe that physicians will not use, and hospitals will not purchase, our systems unless they determine that they provide a safe and effective alternative to existing treatments. Since we have received FDA clearance to market our Sensei system and disposable Artisan catheters only for guiding catheters to map the heart anatomy, we will not be able to label or promote these products, or train physicians, for use in guiding catheters for cardiac ablation until such clearance or approval is obtained. Currently, there is only limited clinical data on our Sensei system with which to assess its safety and efficacy in any procedure, including atrial fibrillation and other cardiac ablation procedures. A number of recent studies have been published on the efficacy, safety and efficiency of our products, especially by comparison to manual techniques. While we believe many of those studies have demonstrated the benefits of our products, some of these studies have been cited by our competitors to portray our products in an unfavorable light. A number of additional studies are underway both in the United States and Europe assessing the clinical experience with our products and continuing to compare usability and success of treatment between procedures performed with our Sensei system and manual technique. If these studies, or other clinical studies performed by us or others, or clinical experience indicate that procedures with our Sensei system or the type of procedures that can be performed with the Sensei system are not effective or safe for such uses, physicians may choose not to use our Sensei system. For example, one study reported a statistically insignificant higher rate of major complications for patients treated with our system than those treated manually and one patient in the robotic arm of the study died. This study or other studies may create a perception that our system is not as effective and/or safe as manual technique. Reluctance by physicians to use our Sensei system or to perform procedures enabled by the Sensei system would harm sales. Furthermore, we are commencing the commercializing our Magellan Robotic System and NorthStar Robotic Catheter for the treatment of vascular diseases, but there is very little clinical data for the system’s safety and efficacy. Reluctance by physicians to use our Magellan Robotic System or to perform procedures enabled by the Magellan Robotic System would harm these sales. Further, unsatisfactory patient outcomes or patient injury in either of our major products could cause 50 negative publicity for our products, particularly in the early phases of product introduction. In addition, physicians may be slow to adopt our products if they perceive liability risks arising from the use of these new products. It is also possible that as our products become more widely used, latent or other defects could be identified, creating negative publicity and liability problems for us, thereby adversely affecting demand for our products. If physicians do not adopt the use of our products in their practices, we likely will not become profitable on a sustained basis and our business will be harmed. In addition, our research and development efforts and our marketing strategy depend heavily on obtaining support and collaboration from highly regarded physicians at leading hospitals. If we are unable to gain or maintain such support and collaboration, our ability to market our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System and, as a result, our business and results of operations, could be harmed. Until other products are developed and receive regulatory approval and clinical acceptance, we expect to derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of our Sensei system and our catheters, in addition to our recently-introduced Magellan Robotic System and NorthStar Robotic Catheter. If hospitals do not purchase our system, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our operations. Our initial commercial offering consisted primarily of two products, our Sensei system and our corresponding disposable Artisan catheters. The Sensei system has been supplemented by an optional CoHesion Module and, in the third quarter of 2010, we introduced our Lynx catheter in Europe. In order for us to achieve sales, hospitals must purchase our Sensei system and Artisan and Lynx catheters. We also received the CE Mark in Europe for our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011 and for the NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan system in September 2011. Our products have been newly introduced to the market and hospitals are traditionally slow to adopt new products and treatment practices. In addition, our systems are an expensive capital equipment purchase, representing a significant portion of an electrophysiology or vascular laboratory’s annual budget, and the disposable catheters used with our systems are also expensive. In addition, because we have shipped only slightly more than 100 Sensei systems and our Magellan Robotic System has only recently been commercially introduced, our systems have limited product and brand recognition. Furthermore, particularly in this period of economic volatility and uncertainty, we do not believe hospitals will purchase our products unless the physicians at those hospitals express a strong desire to use our products and we cannot predict whether or not they will do so. If hospitals do not widely adopt our Sensei system or Magellan Robotic System, or if they decide that our systems are too expensive to purchase or operate, we may never achieve significant revenue or become profitable. Such a failure to adequately sell our Sensei system or Magellan Robotic System would have a materially detrimental impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting off-label use of our products in violation of federal and state regulations in the United States or elsewhere. We have received FDA clearance of our Sensei system and Artisan catheters only to facilitate manipulation, positioning and control for collecting electrophysiological data within the heart atria with two specified mapping catheters, which is a critical step in the identification of the heart tissue generating abnormal heart rhythms that may require ablation or other treatment. Because the FDA has determined that there is a reasonable likelihood that physicians may choose to use our products off-label, and that harm may result, we are required to label our products to state that their safety and effectiveness for use with cardiac ablation catheters in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation have not been established. We have commenced a clinical trial for the use of our Sensei system and Artisan catheter with an ablation catheter in the treatment of atrial fibrillation as part of our process to expand our current labeling in the U.S. beyond mapping. Thus, efforts are underway to eventually seek regulatory clearance for the use of our Sensei system in atrial fibrillation procedures. We may subsequently seek regulatory clearance for use of our Sensei system for use with other catheters. The future of our electrophysiology business will depend primarily on the use of our Sensei system in 51 the treatment of atrial fibrillation and other cardiovascular procedures, for which we do not yet, and may never, have FDA clearance or approval. Unless and until we receive regulatory clearance or approval for use of our Sensei system with ablation catheters or in these procedures, uses in these procedures will be considered off-label uses of our Sensei system. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other similar laws, we are prohibited from labeling or promoting our products, or training physicians, for such off-label uses. This prohibition means that the FDA could deem it unlawful for us to make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our Sensei system for use with ablation catheters and in cardiac ablation procedures and that we may not proactively discuss or provide information or training on the use of our product in cardiac ablation procedures or use with unapproved catheters, with very limited exceptions. We presently believe that to date, substantially all of the procedures in which our products have been used in the United States have included off-label uses such as cardiac ablation, for which our Sensei system and Artisan catheters have not been cleared by the FDA. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance or approval has not been obtained. Moreover, scrutiny of such practices by the FDA and other federal agencies has recently increased. Promotional activities for FDA regulated products of other companies have been the subject of enforcement action brought under healthcare reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies under the Federal False Claims Act and various other federal and state laws, as well as criminal sanctions. Due to these legal constraints, our U.S. sales and marketing efforts focus on the general technical attributes and benefits of our Sensei system and the use of this device with the two mapping catheters that are identified in our FDA-cleared label. If we are perceived not to be in compliance with all of the restrictions limiting the promotion of our products for off-label use, we could be subject to various enforcement measures, including investigations, administrative proceedings and federal and state court litigation, which would likely be costly to defend and harmful to our business. If the FDA or another governmental authority ultimately concludes we are not in compliance with such restrictions, we could be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, injunctions against sales for off-label uses, significant monetary and punitive penalties and criminal sanctions, any or all of which would be harmful to our business and in certain instances may cause us to have to cease operations. The training required for physicians to use our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System could reduce the market acceptance of our system and reduce our revenue. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to ensure that there are a sufficient number of physicians familiar with, trained on and proficient in the use of our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System. Convincing physicians to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our systems is challenging, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. It is our policy to train U.S. physicians to only insert, navigate, map and remove catheters using our Sensei system. Physicians must obtain training elsewhere to learn how to ablate cardiac tissue to treat atrial fibrillation, which is an off-label procedure with our Sensei system. This training may be provided in the U.S. by third parties, such as hospitals and universities and through independent peer-to-peer training among doctors. We cannot assure you that a sufficient number of U.S. physicians will become aware of training programs or that physicians will dedicate the time, funds and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our system. Additionally, we will have no control over the quality of these training programs. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may result in unsatisfactory outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and sales of our products. Furthermore, our inability to educate and train U.S. physicians to use our Sensei system for cardiac 52 ablation procedures may lead to inadequate demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Training in the use of our products by U.S. physicians is regulated by the FDA. We monitor our training to ensure that off-label use is not promoted or enabled. However, from time to time, we may sponsor third party training. There is a risk that independent peer-to-peer interaction between physicians and other third party training may include discussion or observation of off-label procedures because most procedures performed to date using the Sensei system involve both mapping and cardiac ablation. If any such activities are attributed to us, the FDA or other governmental entities could conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion of our products, which could subject us to significant liability. Because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors’ products, which would result in reduced revenue and harm our financial results. Our Sensei system is still considered a new technology and must compete with established manual interventional methods and methods of our competitors, such as Stereotaxis, Inc., in remote navigation. Conventional manual methods are widely accepted in the medical community, have a long history of use and do not require the purchase of additional, expensive capital equipment. The Stereotaxis Niobe® system, which has been in the market since 2003, four years earlier than our Sensei system, has been adopted by a number of leading clinicians. Similarly, our Magellan Robotic System is a new technology and must compete with established manual interventional techniques. In addition, many of the medical conditions that can be treated using our products can also be treated with existing drugs or other medical devices and procedures. Many of these alternative treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. We also face competition from companies that are developing drugs or other medical devices or procedures to treat the conditions for which our products are intended. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries make significant investments in research and development and innovation is rapid and continuous. If new products or technologies emerge that provide the same or superior benefits as our products at equal or lesser cost, they could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. We cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will be competitive with current or future products and technologies. Most of our competitors enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • longer operating histories; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory clearance for products and marketing approved products; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. In addition, as the markets for medical devices develop, additional competitors could enter the market. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Our revenues would be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective and less expensive than our products. 53 We expect to continue to experience extended and variable sales cycles, which could cause significant variability in our results of operations for any given quarter. Our systems have a lengthy sales cycle because they involve a relatively expensive capital equipment purchase, which generally requires the approval of senior management at hospitals, inclusion in the hospitals’ budget process for capital expenditures and, in some instances, a certificate of need from the state or other regulatory clearance. We continue to estimate that this sales cycle may take between six and 18 months. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through 2011, in a period of economic uncertainty, we have seen sales cycles for many potential customers lengthen and purchase decisions postponed. Additionally, the majority of our revenue is shipped in the last weeks of a given quarter. Any disruption in our supply chain during those critical weeks or an inability to fulfill our deliverables during that compressed time frame could significantly impact the timing of our ability to recognize revenue on those items. These factors have contributed in the past and may contribute in the future to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly in the near term and during any other periods in which our sales volume is relatively low. As a result, in future quarters our operating results could differ from our announcements of guidance regarding future operating or financial results or may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. These fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. In addition, the introduction of new products such as our Magellan Robotic System and NorthStar Robotic Catheter could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits of new investments in capital products. The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management’s attention and harm our reputation and business. Our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. Moreover, the FDA has expressed concerns regarding the safety and efficacy of our Sensei system for ablation and other therapeutic indications, including for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and has specifically instructed that our products be labeled to inform our customers that the safety and effectiveness of our technology for use with cardiac ablation catheters in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, including for atrial fibrillation, have not been established. We presently believe that to date, all of the procedures in which our products have been used in the United States have included off-label uses such as cardiac ablation, for which our Sensei system and Artisan catheters have not been cleared by the FDA and which therefore could increase the risk of product liability claims. The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive litigation over product liability claims. We may be subject to claims by consumers, healthcare providers, third-party payors or others selling our products if the use of our products were to cause, or merely appear to cause, injury or death. Any weakness in training and services associated with our products may also result in product liability lawsuits. Although we maintain clinical trial liability and product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain our existing product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or adequate amounts. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome could result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • diversion of management’s attention; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • significant costs of related litigation; • payment of substantial monetary awards to patients; • product recalls or market withdrawals; • loss of revenue; and 54 • the inability to commercialize our products under development. We may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our existing and anticipated products without additional funding. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development. We expect to spend significant additional amounts on the continuing commercialization of our products and the development and introduction of new products. In particular, we have recently begun commercialization in Europe of a new robotic system to be used in endovascular applications, are seeking U.S. regulatory approvals for the system and are continuing development of a next generation version of the system. We expect to spend considerable amounts in the development and commercialization of this device and in obtaining regulatory approval. In 2011, net cash used in operating activities was $36.4 million, which included $9.0 million received from Philips associated with the amended extended joint development agreement. We expect that our cash used in operations will be significant in each of the next several years, and we will need additional funds to continue the commercialization of both our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System in addition to ongoing product expansions. Additional financing may not be available on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, even if financing becomes available, the cost to us may be significantly higher than in the past. Any additional financing may be dilutive to stockholders or may require us to grant a lender a security interest in our intellectual property assets. The amount of funding we will need will depend on many factors, including: • the success of our research and product development efforts; • the expenses we incur in selling and marketing our products; • the costs and timing of future regulatory clearances; • the revenue generated by sales of our current and future products; • the gross margins generated by our revenues and cost of sales; • the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development activities; • the emergence of competing or complementary technological developments; • the cost of legal fees relating to shareholder lawsuits and government investigations; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, or participating in litigation-related activities; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing or other arrangements that we may establish; and • the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products. Any of these factors could harm our financial condition. Our products and related technologies can be applied in different applications, and we may fail to focus on the most profitable areas or we may be unable to address successfully financial and technology risks associated with new applications, including applications for the vascular market. The technology underlying our systems is designed to have the potential for applications beyond electrophysiology and vascular disease which require a control catheter to approach diseased tissue. We further believe that the technology underlying our system can provide multiple opportunities to improve the speed and 55 capability of many diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. We will be required to seek a separate 510(k) clearance or PMA approval from the FDA for these applications of our technology. However, we have limited financial and managerial resources and therefore may be required to focus on products in selected applications and to forego efforts with regard to other products and industries including expansion of our electrophysiology applications as well as the development of non-electrophysiology applications. We are dedicating significant resources to the development and commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System, NorthStar Robotic Catheter and associated accessories. These efforts may not produce viable commercial products and may divert our limited resources from more profitable market opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to developing products in additional areas but may be unable to justify the value proposition or otherwise develop a commercial market for products we develop in these areas, if any. In that case, the return on investment in these additional areas may be limited, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to maintain collaborative relationships with providers of imaging and visualization technology on terms favorable to us, or at all, our Sensei system may not be able to gain market acceptance and our business may be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We believe that integrating our Sensei system with key imaging and visualization technologies using an open architecture approach is a key element in establishing our Sensei system as important for complex interventional procedures. Our Sensei system currently utilizes a variety of imaging means to visualize and assist in navigating our catheters. These imaging systems include fluoroscopy, intravascular ultrasound and electro-anatomic mapping systems, as well as pre-operatively acquired three-dimensional computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. We believe that in the future, as imaging companies develop increasingly sophisticated three-dimensional imaging systems, we will need to integrate advanced imaging into our Sensei system in order to compete effectively. There can be no assurance that we can timely and effectively integrate these systems or components into our Sensei system in order to remain competitive. We expect to face competition from companies that are developing new approaches and products for use in interventional procedures and that have an established presence in the field of interventional cardiology, including the major imaging, capital equipment and disposables companies that are currently selling products in the electrophysiology laboratory. We may not be able to acquire or develop three-dimensional imaging and visualization technology for use with our Sensei system. In addition, developing or acquiring key imaging and visualization technologies could be expensive and time-consuming and may not integrate well with our Sensei system. If we are unable to timely acquire, develop or integrate imaging and visualization technologies, or any other changing technologies, effectively, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. In April 2007, we entered into agreements with St. Jude Medical, Inc., or St. Jude, to integrate our Sensei system with St. Jude’s Ensite system and to co-market the integrated product. We are not obligated to undertake any other development projects except for the integration of the Sensei system with the EnSite system. We are solely responsible for gaining regulatory approvals for, and all costs associated with, our portion of the integrated products developed under the arrangement. At the end of the second quarter of 2008, the FDA cleared for marketing in the United States our CoHesion Module, which provides an interface between our Sensei system and the EnSite system; however, there can be no assurance that we will successfully maintain necessary regulatory clearances or that we and St. Jude will maintain compatibility of our products under the collaboration or that the CoHesion Module will gain market acceptance. In August, 2010, we entered into an agreement with St. Jude permitting us to integrate St. Jude’s EnSite Velocity Cardiac Mapping System with our CoHesion Module to provide physicians the ability to visualize, locate and robotically control catheters within the heart to diagnose heart rhythm disorders. 56 Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our offerings and markets and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the company that we acquired, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for us. In addition, we may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions which could harm our operating results. Software defects may be discovered in our products. Our systems incorporate sophisticated computer software. Complex software frequently contains errors, especially when first introduced. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex interventional procedures, we expect that physicians and hospitals will have an increased sensitivity to the potential for software and other defects. We cannot assure you that our software will not experience errors or performance problems in the future. If we experience software errors or performance problems, we would likely also experience: • loss of revenue; • an increase in reportable adverse events to applicable authorities such as the FDA; • delay in market acceptance of our products; • damage to our reputation; • additional regulatory filings; • product recalls; • increased service or warranty costs; and/or • product liability claims relating to the software defects. Our costs could substantially increase if we receive a significant number of service claims. We typically provide post-contract customer service for each of our products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of approximately 12 months from the delivery or acceptance of our product by a customer which is normally when the system is installed. The associated expenses are charged to cost of revenues as incurred. We have a very limited history of commercial placements from which to judge our rate of claims against our service contracts. Our obligation under these service contracts may be impacted by product failure rates, material usage and service costs. Unforeseen exposure under these post-contract customer service contracts could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hospitals or physicians may be unable to obtain coverage or reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System, which could affect the adoption or use of our systems and may cause our revenues to decline. We anticipate that third-party payors will continue to reimburse hospitals and physicians under existing billing codes for the vast majority of the procedures involving our products. We expect that healthcare facilities 57 and physicians in the United States will continue to bill various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental programs and private insurers, for services performed using our products. We believe that procedures targeted for use with our products are generally already reimbursable under government programs and most private plans. Accordingly, we believe providers in the United States will generally not be required to obtain new billing authorizations or codes in order to be compensated for performing medically necessary procedures using our products on insured patients. There can be no assurance, however, that coverage, coding and reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not change in the future with respect to some or all of the procedures that would use our systems. Additionally, in the event that a physician uses our Sensei system or Magellan Robotic System for indications not approved by the FDA, there can be no assurance that the coverage or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will be comparable to FDA-approved uses. Future legislation, regulation or coverage, coding and reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for our products currently under development and limit our ability to profitably sell our products. For example, in prior years, certain recent regulatory changes were made to the methodology for calculating payments for inpatient procedures in certain hospitals, resulting in a decrease to Medicare payment rates for surgical and cardiac procedures, including those procedures for which our products are targeted. The majority of the procedures performed with our Sensei system and Artisan catheter are done on an in-patient basis and thus are paid under the Medicare-severity diagnosis related group, or MS-DRG system. We believe that the majority of procedures performed using our Sensei technology fall under MS-DRG 251, percutaneous cardiovascular procedures without coronary artery stent or acute myocardial infarction without major cardiovascular complication. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services update the MS-DRG payment rates annually effective October 1 through September 30 of the following year. Because hospital inpatient reimbursement is largely dependent on geographical location and other hospital-specific factors, an individual hospital’s revenues from ablation procedures to treat atrial fibrillation using our technology can vary significantly. At this time, although payments for these cardiac procedures have not undergone further reductions, we cannot predict the full impact any future rate changes, including rate reductions, will have on our revenues or business. We do not currently know which MS-DRG code or codes will be used for procedures performed with our Magellan Robotic System or whether reimbursement amounts will be considered favorable by hospitals. Our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement by government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and third-party payors. Recent legislative proposals in the United States to reform healthcare and government insurance programs have included a focus on healthcare costs which could limit the coverage and reimbursement for procedures utilizing our products. In both the United States and foreign markets, healthcare cost-containment efforts are prevalent and are expected to continue and may increase. The failure of our customers to obtain sufficient reimbursement could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and harm our business. Legislative reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our revenues and business. From time to time, legislative reform measures are proposed or adopted that would impact healthcare expenditures for medical services, including the medical devices used to provide those services. For example, in March 2010, U.S. President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively referred to as the Affordable Care Act, which makes a number of substantial changes in the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act requires certain medical device manufacturers and importers to pay an excise tax equal to 2.3% of the price for which such medical devices are sold, beginning January 1, 2013. We cannot assure you that the Affordable Care Act, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. 58 Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health care insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs. Hospitals are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, which may increase price sensitivity among customers for our products, and adversely affect sales, pricing, and utilization of our products. Some third-party payors must also approve coverage for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. We cannot predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results. We have incurred substantial management and employee turnover and we may lose additional key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel needed for us to operate our business effectively. In January 2012, our Vice President of Marketing and Business Development resigned, in December 2011, our Vice President of Legal Affairs resigned, in May 2011, our Senior Vice President of Regulatory and Chief Technology Officer resigned, in January 2011, our Vice President of U.S. Commercial Operations resigned and in October 2010, our Senior Vice President of Operations resigned. We hired a new Vice President of Clinical Affairs and Training in October 2010, a new Vice President of Engineering in November 2010, a new Vice President of U.S. Commercial Operations in April 2011, a new Chief Financial Officer in June 2011 and a new Vice President and General Counsel in January 2012. If we are unable to recruit qualified individuals in a timely manner, our product development and commercialization efforts could be materially delayed or be unsuccessful. Additionally, in the third quarter of 2008 and the first and third quarters of 2009, we reduced our work force and we may undertake additional actions to reduce our work force in the future. These reductions in force may make it more difficult to retain and attract the qualified personnel required, placing a significant strain on our management. Accordingly, retaining such personnel and recruiting necessary new employees in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled management and personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities and our business will be harmed. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any members of our senior management. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. The loss of any of these persons could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the development and introduction of our products, and could require the remaining management members to direct immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the possible future growth of our business. We have experienced periods of significant growth in the scope of our operations. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operations resources. In order to achieve our business objectives, however, we will need to continue to grow, which presents numerous challenges, including: • implementing appropriate operational and financial systems and controls; • expanding manufacturing capacity, increasing production and improving margins; • developing our sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities; • identifying, attracting and retaining qualified personnel in our areas of activity; and 59 • training, managing and supervising our personnel worldwide. Any failure to effectively manage our growth could impede our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products and our business will be harmed. We sell our systems internationally and are subject to various risks relating to such international activities which could adversely affect our international sales and operating performance. A portion of our current and future revenues will come from international sales. To expand internationally, we will need to hire, train and retain additional qualified personnel. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks, including: • required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • export or import restrictions and controls relating to technology; • pricing pressure; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • shipping delays; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • difficulties in penetrating markets in which our competitors’ products are more established; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy the situation, and if we are unsuccessful at finding a solution, our revenue may decline. Our financial results are subject to currency fluctuations as a result of our international operations which could decrease our revenues. In 2011, approximately 53% of our total revenues were generated outside the United States. While most of these revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars, approximately 20% of our total revenues were generated in other currencies. We translate results of transactions denominated in local currencies into U.S. dollars using market conversion rates applicable to the period in which the transaction is reported. As a result, changes in exchange rates during a period can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results and our asset and liability balances, even if the underlying value of the item in its original currency has not changed. A hypothetical 10% increase in the United States dollar exchange rate used would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $452,000 in revenues for 2011. Our business may be harmed by a natural disaster, terrorist attacks or other unanticipated problems. Our manufacturing and office facilities are located in Mountain View, California. Despite precautions taken by us, a natural disaster such as fire or earthquake, a terrorist attack or other unanticipated problems at our facilities could interrupt our ability to manufacture our products or operate our business. These disasters or 60 problems may also destroy our product inventories. While we carry insurance for certain natural disasters and business interruption, any prolonged or repeated disruption or inability to manufacture our products or operate our business could result in losses that exceed the amount of coverage provided by this insurance, and in such event could harm our business. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by materials that we handle, and changes in environmental regulations could cause us to incur additional expense. Our research and development, manufacturing and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful biological materials as well as other hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may affect how we conduct our business and affect our reported results of operations. Significant new accounting pronouncements and taxation rules or practices and updated interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements and taxation rules or practices have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. In addition, a review of existing or prior accounting practices may result in a change in previously reported amounts. For example, the FASB has recently issued new accounting principles around revenue recognition and the SEC is considering adoption of international financial reporting standards. These changes to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. We expect to incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain the patent protection we seek, or whether the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party 61 defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert, which, if successful could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. We cannot assure you that we will obtain the patent protection we seek, that any protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged or that such patent protection will confer any significant commercial advantage. United States patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and United States patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings and, starting in 2012, post grant and inter partes review in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, which proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of, the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination, post grant review, inter partes review, and opposition proceedings may be costly. Some of our technology was, and continues to be, developed in conjunction with third parties, and thus there is a risk that such third parties may claim rights in our intellectual property. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Non-payment or delay in payment of patent fees or annuities, whether intentional or unintentional, may result in loss of patents or patent rights important to our business. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, particularly in the field of medical products and procedures. Our trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect unpatented technology provide only limited and possibly inadequate protection of our rights. As a result, third parties may be able to use our unpatented technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products or in commercial relationships with us may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. Third parties may assert that we are infringing their intellectual property rights which may result in litigation. Successfully commercializing our Sensei system, our Magellan Robotic System and any other products we may develop, will depend in part on our not infringing patents held by third parties. It is possible that one or more of our products, including those that we have developed in conjunction with third parties, infringes existing patents. From time to time, we have received, and likely will continue to receive, communications from third parties inviting us to license their patents or accusing us of infringement. There can be no assurance that a third party will not take further action, such as filing a patent infringement lawsuit, including a request for injunctive relief, to bar the manufacture and sale of our Sensei system in the United States or elsewhere or the sale of our Magellan system in Europe. We may also choose to defend ourselves by initiating litigation or administrative proceedings to clarify or seek a declaration of our rights. As competition in our market grows, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us or litigation we will initiate increases. 62 There may be existing patents which may be broad enough to cover aspects of our future technology. In addition, because patent applications in many countries such as the United States are maintained under conditions of confidentiality and can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. We do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be upheld as valid, enforceable and infringed by our products or technology. From time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing their patents or inviting us to license their patents. We may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these or other third parties. We cannot assure you that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may present concerning the invalidity, unenforceability or noninfringement of any third-party patent. In addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. We cannot assure you that any patents issuing from applications will not cover our products or will not have priority over our own products and patent applications. We may not be able to maintain or obtain all the licenses from third parties necessary or advisable for promoting, manufacturing and selling our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System, which may cause harm to our business, operations and financial condition. We rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System, such as patents and other intellectual property that we have co-exclusively licensed from Intuitive. Under our agreement with Intuitive, we received the right to apply Intuitive’s patent portfolio in the field of intravascular approaches for the diagnosis or treatment of cardiovascular, neurovascular and peripheral vascular diseases. To the extent that we develop or commercialize robotic capability outside the field of use covered by our license with Intuitive, which we may choose to do at some time in the future, we may not have the patent protection and the freedom to operate outside the field which is afforded by the license inside the field. Although we believe that there are opportunities for us to operate outside the licensed field of use without using Intuitive’s intellectual property, Intuitive from time to time has told us that it believes certain of our past activities that have fallen outside the licensed field have infringed its intellectual property rights. Although we disagree with Intuitive’s position, we presently remain focused within our licensed field and so have agreed to inform Intuitive before commencing any further outside clinical investigations for endoluminal applications or engaging in external technology exhibitions at non-intravascular conferences. There can be no assurance that Intuitive will not challenge any activities we engage in outside the intravascular space, and we cannot assure you that in the event of such a challenge we would be able to reach agreement with Intuitive on whether activities outside our licensed field may be conducted without the use of the Intuitive’s intellectual property. If Intuitive asserts that any of our activities outside the licensed field are infringing their patent or other intellectual property rights or commences litigation against us, we will incur significant costs defending against such claims or seeking an additional license from Intuitive, and we may be required to limit use of our systems or future products and technologies within our licensed intravascular field if any of our activities outside the licensed field are judged to infringe Intuitive’s intellectual property, any of which could cause substantial harm our business, operations and financial condition. Although Intuitive is restricted in how it can terminate our license, if Intuitive were ever to successfully do so, and if we are unable to obtain another license from Intuitive, we could be required to abandon use of our existing product technology completely and could have to undergo a substantial redesign and design-around effort, which we cannot assure you would be successful. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s attention, require us to pay damages and discontinue selling our products. The medical device industry is characterized by frequent and extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often difficult to predict, and the outcome may be 63 uncertain until the court has entered final judgment and all appeals are exhausted. Our competitors may assert, and have asserted in the past, that our products or the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. This risk is heightened due to the numerous issued and pending patents relating to the use of robotic and catheter-based procedures in the medical technology field. For example, we have received correspondence from a third party indicating it believes it holds a patent that our Sensei system may infringe. While we do not believe that the Sensei system infringes this patent, there can be no assurance that the third party will not take further action, such as filing a patent infringement lawsuit, including a request for injunctive relief, to bar the manufacture and sale of our Sensei system in the United States. If relevant patents are upheld as valid and enforceable and we are found to infringe, we could be prevented from selling our system unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. In addition, our patents may be subject to various invalidity attacks, such as those based upon earlier filed patent applications, patents, publications, products or processes, which might invalidate or limit the scope of the protection that our patents afford. Infringement actions, validity challenges and other intellectual property claims and proceedings, whether with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in obtaining patents and expect to incur substantial costs defending our proprietary rights. Incurring such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or that we will successfully defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our products, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. An inability to incorporate technologies or features that are important or essential to our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, and may prevent us from selling our products. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Incurring such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 64 Additional Risks Related to Regulatory Matters If we fail to obtain regulatory clearances in other countries for existing products or products under development, we will not be able to commercialize these products in those countries. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA clearance. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA clearance in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects described above regarding FDA clearance in the United States. For example, the European Union requires that medical products receive the right to affix the CE mark. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. In order to obtain the right to affix the CE mark to our products, we will need to obtain certification that our processes meet European quality standards. These standards include certification that our product design and manufacturing facility complies with ISO 13485 quality standards. We received CE mark approval for our Artisan catheters in May 2007, our Lynx catheters in September 2010, our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011 and our NorthStar Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan system in September 2011. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in meeting European quality standards or other certification requirements. We may fail to comply with continuing postmarket regulatory requirements of the FDA and other authorities and become subject to substantial penalties, or marketing experience may show that our device is unsafe, forcing us to recall or withdraw it permanently from the market. We must comply with continuing regulation by the FDA and other authorities, including the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, labeling and promotional requirements and medical device adverse event and other reporting requirements. If the adverse event reports we file with the FDA regarding death, serious injuries or malfunctions indicate or suggest that the device presents an unacceptable risk to patients, including when used off-label by physicians, we may be forced to recall the device and/or modify the device or its labeling, or withdraw it permanently from the market. The FDA has expressed concerns regarding the safety of the device when used with catheters and in procedures not specified in the indication we are seeking, such as ablation catheters and ablation procedures, and we have already filed Medical Device Reports reporting adverse events during procedures utilizing our technology. Physicians are using our device off-label with ablation catheters in ablation procedures, as well as in other electrophysiology procedures for which we have not collected safety data, and we therefore cannot assure you that clinical experience will demonstrate that the device is safe for these uses. Any failure to comply, or any perception that we are not complying, with continuing regulation by the FDA or other authorities, including restrictions regarding off-label promotion, could result in enforcement action that may include suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances or approvals, recalling products, ceasing product marketing, seizure and detention of products, paying significant fines and penalties, criminal prosecution and similar actions that could limit product sales, delay product shipment and harm our profitability. In many foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Many of these regulations are similar to those of the FDA. In addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before procedures performed using our products become eligible for coverage and reimbursement. Failure to receive, or 65 delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the movement toward harmonization of standards in the European Union, we expect a changing regulatory environment in Europe characterized by a shift from a country-by-country regulatory system to a European Union-wide single regulatory system. The timing of this harmonization and its effect on us cannot currently be predicted. Adapting our business to changing regulatory systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations or California Department of Health Services requirements, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and our product sales and operating results could suffer. Our manufacturing processes, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, or QSR, which cover the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to such inspections. If our manufacturing facilities or those of any of our contract manufacturers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions, which could have a material impact on our operations: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; • customer notifications for repair, replacement, refunds; • recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; • operating restrictions; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or IDE/PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or • criminal prosecution. We underwent an FDA inspection, which employed QSIT, in July 2010 and received two inspectional observations. The agency has accepted our responses and the inspection has been closed. We are subject to the licensing requirements of the California Department of Health Services, or CDHS. We have been inspected and licensed by the CDHS and remain subject to re-inspection at any time. Failure to maintain a license from the CDHS or to meet the inspection criteria of the CDHS would disrupt our manufacturing processes. If an inspection by the CDHS indicates that there are deficiencies in our manufacturing process, we could be required to take remedial actions at potentially significant expense, and our facility may be temporarily or permanently closed. 66 If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. An increased frequency of filing Medical Device Reports, or MDRs, concerning adverse events occurring during procedures performed with our technology could result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our products and could delay or prevent the adoption of our products. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA when the manufacturer becomes aware of information from any source that alleges that a device marketed by the manufacturer has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. A manufacturer may determine that an event may not meet the FDA’s reporting criteria so that an MDR is not necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. We have made decisions that certain types of events are not MDR reportable. There can be no assurance that the FDA will agree with our decisions. If we fail to report MDRs to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, or if the FDA disagrees with any of our determinations that events are not reportable, the FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any such adverse event involving our products also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. We have filed Medical Device Reports, or MDRs, reporting adverse events during procedures utilizing our technology and have developed internal systems and processes that are designed to evaluate future events that may require adverse event reporting to the FDA. As the frequency of use of our technology in electrophysiology procedures increases, we are experiencing, and anticipate continuing to experience, it being necessary to file an increased number of MDRs. An increased frequency of filing MDRs or a failure to timely file MDRs may result in FDA requests for further information, which could delay other matters that we may have pending before the FDA, or result in additional regulatory action. An increased frequency of MDRs could also reduce confidence in the safety of our products and delay or prevent the acceptance of our products by physicians and hospitals, which would harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. For example, in May 2008, we initiated a voluntary recall of a limited number of our Artisan Control Catheters that were subject to potential leakage, and reported the recall to FDA in accordance with applicable regulations. No patient is known or suspected to have experienced any consequences associated with the recalled devices and the recall was closed in June 2008. Also, following the introduction of a new catheter in the fall of 2009, some of the new catheters experienced a leak in the flush assembly. Although no patient is known or suspected to have experienced any consequences associated with the new catheters, we voluntarily recalled all of the new catheters and reported the events to the FDA in accordance with applicable regulations. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not 67 reportable to the FDA. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. Modifications to our products may, and in some instances, will, require new regulatory clearances or approvals and may require us to recall or cease marketing our products until clearances or approvals are obtained. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory approvals or clearances, including 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or PMAs, and may require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not modifications require a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer of a 510(k) cleared product is required to obtain 510(k) clearance for device modifications that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, or constitute a major change in the intended use of the subject device. Accordingly, a manufacturer may determine that a modification could not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use so that no new 510(k) clearance is necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. There can be no assurance that the FDA will agree with our approach in such matters or that, if required, subsequent requests for 510(k) clearance will be received in a timely fashion, if at all. The FDA may require us to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified or to disable features pending clearance or approval which would significantly harm our ability to sell our products and cause harm to our existing customer relationships and business. Even if we are not required to take such action, delays in obtaining clearances or approvals for features would adversely affect our ability to introduce enhanced products in a timely manner and would harm our revenue and operating results. The FDA could also take other enforcement action, including but not limited to, issuing a warning letter relating to our decision to implement features and other product modifications without submission of a new 510(k) notice. Clinical trials necessary to support any future 510(k) or PMA application will be expensive and may require the enrollment of large numbers of clinical sites and patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Delays or failures in our clinical trials may prevent us from commercializing any modified or new products and will adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Initiating and completing clinical trials necessary to support a 510(k) or PMA application for expanded indications for use of our existing products, will be time consuming and expensive and the outcome uncertain. Moreover, the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials. Conducting successful clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of clinical sites and patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators, support staff, and proximity of patients to clinical sites and able to comply with the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomforts. Patients may 68 also not participate in our clinical trials if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of competitive products. We have received IDE approval for an approximately 300 patient study for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and enrolled our first patient in May 2010. We intend to complete enrollment by the end of 2013. Additionally, we may modify the timing of planned enrollment in the future to minimize expenditures. The study includes a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate safety and efficacy may be required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance or approval. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to consent or continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, FDA may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. If we fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. While we do not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, due to the breadth of many healthcare laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that they will not apply to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers or whose products are frequently used off-label; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • federal self-referral laws, such as STARK, which prohibit a physician from making a referral to a provider of certain health services with which the physician or the physician’s family member has a financial interest, and prohibits submission of a claim for reimbursement pursuant to a prohibited referral; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations 69 could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, to achieve compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, and electronic transaction laws, we may be required to modify our operations with respect to the handling of patient information. Implementing these modifications may prove costly. At this time, we are not able to determine the full consequences to us, including the total cost of compliance, of these various federal and state laws. Our International Operations expose us to liability under global anticorruption laws. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or “FCPA” and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States involve governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from negligent, reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Moreover, even a perceived or alleged violation could result in costly investigations or proceedings that could harm our financial position and reputation. The application of state certificate of need regulations and compliance by providers with federal and state licensing requirements, as well as accreditation requirements, could substantially limit our ability to sell our products and grow our business. Some states require healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need or similar regulatory approval prior to the acquisition of high-cost capital items such as our Sensei system. In many cases, a limited number of these certificates are available and, as a result, hospitals and other healthcare providers may be unable to obtain a certificate of need for the purchase of our Sensei system. Further, our sales cycle for our system is typically longer in certificate of need states due to the time it takes our customers to obtain the required approvals. In addition, our customers must meet various federal and state regulatory and/or accreditation requirements in order to receive reimbursement from government-sponsored healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and other third-party payors. Any lapse by our customers in maintaining appropriate licensure, certification or accreditation, or the failure of our customers to satisfy the other necessary requirements under government-sponsored healthcare programs, could cause our sales to decline. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Since our initial public offering in November 2006 through February 29, 2012, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $1.24 to a high of $39.32. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: • the announcement of our operating results, including the number of systems sold during a period and our revenue for the period, and the comparison of these results to the expectations of analysts and investors; • the receipt, denial or timing of regulatory clearances, approvals or actions of our products or competing products; • sales of common stock or other debt or equity securities by us or our stockholders in the future; 70 • the success of any collaborations we may undertake with other companies; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • the pace of enrollment or results of our 300 patient clinical trial or any other clinical trials; • changes in policies affecting third-party coverage and reimbursement in the United States and other countries; • ability of our products to achieve market success; • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers; • our ability to develop sales and marketing capabilities; • our ability to manufacture our products to meet commercial and regulatory standards; • our ability to manage costs and improve margins; • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements of new products, technological innovations or product advancements by us or our competitors; • announcements of acquisitions or dispositions by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • trading volume of our common stock; • our announcements of guidance regarding future operating or financial results which fails to meet investor or analyst expectations or which differs from our previously-announced guidance; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, failure to obtain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analyst earnings estimates; • public statements by analysts or clinicians regarding their perceptions of the effectiveness of our products; • developments in our industry; • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; and • the impact of shareholder lawsuits and governmental investigations both on us and on our public perception. The stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Additional class action securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management resources, which could significantly harm our business. Securities analysts may not continue, or additional securities analysts may not initiate, coverage for our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Currently, several securities analysts provide research coverage of our common stock. Several analysts have already published statements that do not portray our technology, products or procedures using our products in a 71 positive light and others may do so in the future. If we are unable to educate those who publicize such reports about the benefits we believe our technology provides, or if one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If sufficient securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract and maintain sufficient independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Our principal stockholders, directors and management own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. Based on our review of publicly available filings as of February 29, 2012, our five largest stockholders collectively owned approximately 36.0 percent of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our executive officers and directors beneficially own or control approximately 10.9 percent of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 29, 2012. Accordingly, our principal stockholders and our executive officers and directors have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Pursuant to our loan agreement with Oxford and Silicon Valley Bank, we must obtain Oxford’s and Silicon Valley Bank’s prior written consent in order to pay any dividends on our common stock. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: • permit our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate, including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in our control; • provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors; • provide that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; 72 • divide our Board of Directors into three classes; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and not be taken by written consent; • provide that stockholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of stockholders must provide notice in writing in a timely manner, and also specify requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder’s notice; • do not provide for cumulative voting rights, therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election, if they should so choose; • provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the Board, our chief executive officer or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; and • provide that stockholders will be permitted to amend our amended and restated bylaws only upon receiving at least 66 2/3 percent of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any broad range of business combinations with any stockholder who owns, or at any time in the last three years owned, 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Future sales of shares of our common stock, the announcement to undertake such sales, or the perception that they may occur, may depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock by us or by our stockholders, announcements of the proposed sales of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock or the perception that sales may be made, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital or in connection with acquisitions, corporate alliances or settlements with third parties and we plan to issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants in connection with their services to us. All of the currently outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable under federal and state securities laws, except for shares held by our directors, officers and certain greater than five percent stockholders, which may be subject to volume limitations. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. Such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period, which may reduce our stock price. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section. 73 We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 