ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our structure as a limited partnership, our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering an investment in our securities. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our only significant assets are our partnership interests, including the incentive distribution rights, in ETP and Regency and, therefore, our cash flow is dependent upon the ability of ETP and Regency to make distributions in respect of those partnership interests. We do not have any significant assets other than our partnership interests in ETP and Regency. As a result, our cash flow depends on the performance of ETP, Regency and their respective subsidiaries and ETP’s and Regency’s ability to make cash distributions to us, which is dependent on the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition of ETP and Regency. The amount of cash that ETP and Regency can distribute to their partners, including us, each quarter depends upon the amount of cash they generate from their operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on, among other things: Ÿ the amount of natural gas transported through ETP’s and Regency’s transportation pipelines and gathering systems; Ÿ the level of throughput in its processing and treating operations; 29 Table of Contents Ÿ the fees they charged and the margins realized by ETP and Regency for their gathering, treating, processing, storage and transportation services; Ÿ the price of natural gas and NGLs; Ÿ the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; Ÿ the weather in their respective operating areas; Ÿ the cost of the propane ETP buys for resale and the prices it receives for its propane; Ÿ the level of competition from other midstream companies, interstate pipeline companies, propane companies and other energy providers; Ÿ the level of their respective operating costs; Ÿ prevailing economic conditions; and Ÿ the level of their respective derivative activities. In addition, the actual amount of cash that ETP and Regency will have available for distribution will also depend on other factors, such as: Ÿ the level of capital expenditures they make; Ÿ the level of costs related to litigation and regulatory compliance matters; Ÿ the cost of acquisitions, if any; Ÿ the levels of any margin calls that result from changes in commodity prices; Ÿ debt service requirements; Ÿ fluctuations in working capital needs; Ÿ their ability to borrow under their respective credit facilities; Ÿ their ability to access capital markets; Ÿ restrictions on distributions contained in their respective debt agreements; and Ÿ the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by the board of directors and their respective general partners in their discretion for the proper conduct of their respective businesses. ETE does not have any control over many of these factors, including the level of cash reserves established by the board of directors and ETP’s and Regency’s respective General Partners. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that ETP or Regency will have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions to its partners. Furthermore, Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash that ETP and Regency have available for distribution depends primarily upon cash flow and is not solely a function of profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, ETP and Regency may declare and/or pay cash distributions during periods when they record net losses. Please read “Risks Related to the Businesses of Energy Transfer Partners and Regency Energy Partners” included in this Item 1A for a discussion of further risks affecting ETP’s and Regency’s ability to generate distributable cash flow. We may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions at our current quarterly distribution level or to increase distributions. The source of our earnings and cash flow is cash distributions from ETP and Regency. Therefore, the amount of distributions we are currently able to make to our Unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions ETP and Regency makes to their partners. ETP or Regency may not be able to continue to make quarterly distributions at their current level or increase their quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our Unitholders if ETP or Regency increases or decreases 30 Table of Contents distributions to us, the timing and amount of such increased or decreased distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by ETP or Regency to us. Our ability to distribute cash received from ETP and Regency to our Unitholders is limited by a number of factors, including: Ÿ interest expense and principal payments on our indebtedness; Ÿ restrictions on distributions contained in any current or future debt agreements; Ÿ our general and administrative expenses; Ÿ expenses of our subsidiaries other than ETP or Regency, including tax liabilities of our corporate subsidiaries, if any; Ÿ capital contributions we may make to maintain our General Partner interests in ETP or Regency upon the issuance of additional partnership securities by ETP or Regency, as applicable; and Ÿ reserves our General Partner believes prudent for us to maintain for the proper conduct of our business or to provide for future distributions. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to pay distributions or that any distributions we do make will be at or above our current quarterly distribution. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our Unitholders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control or the control of our General Partner. The General Partner is not elected by the Unitholders and cannot be removed without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our Unitholders do not have the ability to elect our General Partner or the officers or directors of our General Partner. Furthermore, if our Unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have little ability to remove our General Partner. Our General Partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding units. Because the equity owners of our General Partner and their affiliates own 68,420,218 Common Units, representing approximately 31% of our outstanding Common Units, it will be particularly difficult for our General Partner to be removed without the consent of the equity owners of our General Partner and their affiliates. As a result, the price at which our Common Units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. A reduction in ETP’s or Regency’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are entitled. Our indirect ownership of 100% of the incentive distribution rights in ETP, through our ownership of equity interests in ETP GP, the holder of the incentive distribution rights, entitles us to receive our pro rata share of specified percentages of total cash distributions made by ETP as it reaches established target cash distribution levels. We currently receive our pro rata share of cash distributions from ETP based on the highest incremental percentage, 48%, to which ETP GP is entitled pursuant to its incentive distribution rights in ETP. A decrease in the amount of distributions by ETP to less than $0.4125 per Common Unit per quarter would reduce ETP GP’s percentage of the incremental cash distributions above $0.3175 per Common Unit per quarter from 48% to 23%. As a result, any such reduction in quarterly cash distributions from ETP would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of all distributions that we receive from ETP based on our ownership interest in the incentive distribution rights in ETP as compared to cash distributions we receive from ETP on our General Partner interest in ETP and our ETP Common Units. 31 Table of Contents Similarly, at the historical level of Regency distributions prior to the completion of the Regency Transactions, Regency GP received its pro rata share of incremental cash distributions from Regency at the 23% level pursuant to its incentive distribution rights in Regency. A decrease in the amount of distributions by Regency to less than $0.4375 per Common Unit per quarter would have reduced Regency GP’s percentage of the incremental cash distributions above $0.4025 per Common Unit per quarter from 23% to 13%. As a result, following the completion of the Regency Transactions and our acquisition of the equity interests in Regency GP, any such reduction in quarterly cash distributions from Regency would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of all distributions that we receive from Regency based on our ownership interest in the incentive distribution rights of Regency as compared to cash distributions we receive from Regency on our General Partner interest in Regency and our Regency Common Units. The consolidated debt level and debt agreements of ETP and Regency and those of their subsidiaries may limit the distributions we receive from ETP and Regency, as well as our future financial and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2010, ETP had approximately $6.44 billion of consolidated debt outstanding, excluding the credit facilities of its joint ventures, which it guarantees in part and Regency had approximately $1.14 billion of consolidated debt outstanding, excluding the credit facilities of their joint ventures. ETP’s and Regency’s levels of indebtedness affect their operations in several ways, including, among other things: Ÿ a significant portion of ETP’s and Regency’s cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and will not be available for other purposes, including payment of distributions to us; Ÿ covenants contained in ETP’s and Regency’s existing debt agreements require ETP and Regency to meet financial tests that may adversely affect their flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in their respective businesses; Ÿ ETP’s and Regency’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general partnership purposes may be limited; Ÿ ETP and Regency may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to similar companies that have less debt; Ÿ ETP and Regency may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions as a result of their significant debt levels; and Ÿ failure to comply with the various restrictive covenants of the debt agreements could negatively impact ETP’s and Regency’s ability to incur additional debt, including their ability to utilize the available capacity under their revolving credit facilities, and to pay distributions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure Unitholders that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure Unitholders that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our credit facilities restrict our ability to 32 Table of Contents dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and any proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. ETP and Regency are not prohibited from competing with us. Neither our partnership agreement nor the partnership agreements of ETP or Regency prohibit ETP or Regency from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Additionally, ETP’s partnership agreement prohibits us from engaging in the retail propane business in the United States. In addition, ETP and/or Regency may acquire, construct or dispose of any assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Construction of new expansion projects will require significant amounts of debt and equity financing which may not be available to ETP or Regency on acceptable terms, or at all. ETP and Regency plan to fund their growth capital expenditures, including any new future pipeline construction projects ETP or Regency may undertake, with proceeds from sales of ETP’s or Regency’s debt and equity securities and borrowings under their respective revolving credit facilities; however, ETP or Regency cannot be certain that they will be able to issue debt and equity securities on terms satisfactory to them, or at all. In addition, ETP or Regency may be unable to obtain adequate funding under their current revolving credit facility because ETP’s or Regency’s lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. If ETP or Regency are unable to finance their expansion projects as expected, ETP or Regency could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to ETP or Regency, or to revise or cancel its expansion plans. A significant increase in ETP’s or Regency’s indebtedness that is proportionately greater than ETP’s or Regency’s respective issuances of equity could negatively impact ETP’s or Regency’s respective credit ratings or their ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under their respective revolving credit agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s or Regency’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in interest rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition to our exposure to commodity prices, we have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $687.3 million of consolidated variable rate debt outstanding, which consisted of borrowings under ETP’s and Regency’s revolving credit facilities of $402.3 million and $285.0 million, respectively and excludes borrowings of ETP’s and Regency’s joint ventures. We manage a portion of our interest rate exposures by utilizing interest rate swaps and similar arrangements. To the extent that we have debt with variable interest rates that is not hedged, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. We had the following interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2010, none of which are designated as hedges for accounting purposes: Entity Term NotionalAmount Type ETP August 2012 (1) $ 400,000 Forward starting to pay a fixed rate of 3.64% and receive a floating rate ETP July 2018 500,000 Pay a floating rate and receive a fixed rate of 6.70% Regency April 2012 250,000 Pay a fixed rate of 1.325% and receive a floating rate 33 Table of Contents (1) These forward starting swaps have an effective date of August 2012 and a term of 10 years; however, the swaps have a mandatory termination provision and will be settled in August 2012. An increase in interest rates may also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our Common Units. Any such reduction in demand for our Common Units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our Common Units to decline. The credit and risk profile of our General Partner and its owners could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile. The credit and business risk profiles of our General Partner or indirect owners of our General Partner may be factors in credit evaluations of us as a publicly traded limited partnership due to the significant influence of our General Partner and indirect owners over our business activities, including our cash distributions, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of our General Partner and its owners, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flow from us to service their indebtedness. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests without the consent of our Unitholders, which will dilute Unitholders’ ownership interest in us and may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. Our partnership agreement allows us to issue an unlimited number of additional limited partner interests, including securities senior to the Common Units, without the approval of our Unitholders. The issuance of additional Common Units or other equity securities by us will have the following effects: Ÿ our Unitholders’ current proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; Ÿ the amount of cash available for distribution on each Common Unit or partnership security may decrease; Ÿ the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; Ÿ the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit may be diminished; and Ÿ the market price of our Common Units may decline. In addition, ETP may sell an unlimited number of limited partner interests without the consent of its Unitholders, which will dilute existing interests of its Unitholders, including us. The issuance of additional Common Units or other equity securities by ETP will have essentially the same effects as detailed above. The market price of our Common Units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our units in the public markets, including sales by our existing Unitholders. Sales by any of our existing Unitholders of a substantial number of our units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. We do not know whether any such sales would be made in the public market or in private placements, nor do we know what impact such potential or actual sales would have on our unit price in the future. Control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without Unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party without the consent of our Unitholders. Furthermore, the members of our General Partner may transfer all or part of their ownership interest in our General Partner to a third party without the consent of the Unitholders. The new owner or owners of our 34 Table of Contents General Partner or the general partner of the General Partner would then be in a position to replace the directors and officers of our General Partner and control the decisions made and actions taken by the board of directors and officers. Our General Partner has only one executive officer, and we are dependent on third parties, including key personnel of ETP under a shared services agreement, to provide the financial, accounting, administrative and legal services necessary to operate our business. John W. McReynolds, the President and Chief Financial Officer of our General Partner, is the only executive officer charged with managing our business other than through our shared services agreement with ETP. We do not currently have a plan for identifying a successor to Mr. McReynolds in the event that he retires, dies or becomes disabled. If Mr. McReynolds ceases to serve as the President and Chief Financial Officer of our General Partner for any reason, we would be without executive management other than through our shared services agreement with ETP until one or more new executive officers are selected by the board of directors of our General Partner. As a consequence, the loss of Mr. McReynolds’ services could have a material negative impact on the management of our business. Moreover, we rely on the services of key personnel of ETP, including the ongoing involvement and continued leadership of Kelcy L. Warren, one of the founders of ETP’s midstream business, as well as other key members of ETP’s management team such as Marshall S. (Mackie) McCrea, III, President and Chief Operating Officer, and William G. Powers, Jr., President of Propane Operations. Mr. Warren has been integral to the success of ETP’s midstream and intrastate transportation and storage businesses because of his ability to identify and develop strategic business opportunities. Losing his leadership could make it difficult for ETP to identify internal growth projects and accretive acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s ability to increase the cash distributions paid on its partnership interests. ETP’s executive officers that provide services to us pursuant to a shared services agreement allocate their time between us and ETP. To the extent that these officers face conflicts regarding the allocation of their time, we may not receive the level of attention from them that the management of our business requires. If ETP is unable to provide us with a sufficient number of personnel with the appropriate level of technical accounting and financial expertise, our internal accounting controls could be adversely impacted. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our units to decline. Limited partner’s liability may not be limited, and our Unitholders may have to repay distributions or make additional contributions to us under limited circumstances. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, a limited partner could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if it participates in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our General Partner. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions in which we do business. In some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, the applicable statutes do not define control, but do permit limited partners to engage in certain activities, including, among other actions, taking any action with respect to the dissolution of the partnership, the sale, exchange, lease or mortgage of any asset of the partnership, the admission or removal of the general partner 35 Table of Contents and the amendment of the partnership agreement. A limited partner could, however, be liable for any and all of our obligations as if it was a general partner if: Ÿ a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or Ÿ a limited partner’s right to act with other Unitholders to take other actions under our partnership agreement is found to constitute “control” of our business. Under limited circumstances, our Unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, neither Energy Transfer Equity, ETP nor Regency may make a distribution to its Unitholders if the distribution would cause Energy Transfer Equity’s, ETP’s or Regency’s respective liabilities to exceed the fair value of their respective assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, partners who received the distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. If we cease to manage and control ETP or Regency in the future, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control ETP or Regency and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. For further discussion of the importance of our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and the implications that would result from our treatment as a corporation in any taxable year, please read the risk factor below entitled “Our tax treatment depends on our continuing status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us, ETP or Regency as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we, ETP or Regency become subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Unitholders. If ETP GP or Regency GP withdraws or is removed as ETP’s or Regency’s General Partner, as applicable, then we would lose control over the management and affairs of ETP or Regency, the risk that we would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 would be exacerbated and our indirect ownership of the General Partner interests and 100% of the incentive distribution rights in ETP or Regency could be cashed out or converted into ETP or Regency Common Units, as applicable, at an unattractive valuation. Under the terms of ETP’s or Regency’s respective partnership agreements, ETP GP or Regency GP, as applicable, will be deemed to have withdrawn as General Partner if, among other things, it: Ÿ voluntarily withdraws from the partnership by giving notice to the other partners; Ÿ transfers all, but not less than all, of its partnership interests to another entity in accordance with the terms of ETP’s or Regency’s partnership agreement, as applicable; 36 Table of Contents Ÿ makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, files a voluntary bankruptcy petition, seeks to liquidate, acquiesces in the appointment of a trustee, receiver or liquidator, or becomes subject to an involuntary bankruptcy petition; or Ÿ dissolves itself under Delaware law without reinstatement within the requisite period. In addition, ETP GP and Regency GP can be removed as ETP’s General Partner if that removal is approved by Unitholders holding at least 66 2/3% of ETP’s or Regency’s respective outstanding Common Units (including units held by ETP GP or Regency GP and their respective affiliates). Currently, ETP GP and its affiliates own approximately 26% of ETP’s outstanding Common Units, and Regency GP and its affiliates own approximately 19% of Regency’s outstanding Common Units. If ETP GP or Regency GP withdraws from being ETP’s or Regency’s respective General Partner in compliance with ETP’s or Regency’s partnership agreement, as applicable, or is removed from being ETP’s or Regency’s respective General Partner under circumstances not involving a final adjudication of actual fraud, gross negligence or willful and wanton misconduct, it may require the successor General Partner to purchase its General Partner interests, incentive distribution rights and limited partner interests in ETP or Regency, as applicable, for fair market value. If ETP GP or Regency GP withdraws from being ETP’s or Regency’s respective General Partner in violation of ETP’s or Regency’s partnership agreement, as applicable, or is removed from being ETP’s or Regency’s General Partner in circumstances where a court enters a judgment that cannot be appealed finding it liable for actual fraud, gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as ETP’s or Regency’s General Partner, and the successor General Partner does not exercise its option to purchase the General Partner interests, incentive distribution rights and limited partner interests in ETP or Regency, as applicable, for fair market value, then the General Partner interests and incentive distribution rights in ETP or Regency, as applicable, could be converted into limited partner interests pursuant to a valuation performed by an investment banking firm or other independent expert. Under any of the foregoing scenarios, ETP GP or Regency GP would lose control over the management and affairs of ETP or Regency, as applicable, thereby increasing the risk that we would be deemed an investment company subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition, our indirect ownership of the General Partner interests and 100% of the incentive distribution rights in ETP and Regency, to which a significant portion of the value of our Common Units is currently attributable, could be cashed out or converted into ETP or Regency Common Units, as applicable, at an unattractive valuation. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the rights of Unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our Unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement generally providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our Unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our Unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result, the price at which our Common Units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Future sales of the ETP or Regency Common Units we own or other limited partner interests in the public market could reduce the market price of our Unitholders’ limited partner interests. As of December 31, 2010, we owned approximately 50.2 million Common Units of ETP and approximately 26.3 million Common Units of Regency. If we were to sell and/or distribute our ETP or Regency Common Units to the holders of our equity interests in the future, those holders may dispose of some or all of these units. The sale or disposition of a substantial portion of these units in the public markets could reduce the market price of ETP’s or Regency’s outstanding Common Units and our receipt of cash distributions. 37 Table of Contents Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner may be substantial and may reduce our ability to pay the distributions to our Unitholders. Prior to making any distributions to our Unitholders, we will reimburse our General Partner for all expenses it has incurred on our behalf. In addition, our General Partner and its affiliates may provide us with services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by our General Partner. The reimbursement of these expenses and the payment of these fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our Unitholders. Our General Partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses and fees. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our General Partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our General Partner. To the extent our General Partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner, our General Partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our Unitholders and cause the value of our Common Units to decline. An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheets reflected $1.60 billion of goodwill and $1.03 billion of intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur, indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets such as intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets were impaired, we would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings with a correlative effect on partners’ capital and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. ETP or Regency may issue additional Common Units, which may increase the risk that ETP or Regency will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. The partnership agreements of each ETP and Regency allow ETP and Regency, respectively, to issue an unlimited number of additional limited partner interests. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities by ETP or Regency will have the following effects: Ÿ Unitholders’ current proportionate ownership interest in ETP or Regency, as applicable, will decrease; Ÿ the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit or partnership security may decrease; Ÿ the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; Ÿ the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and Ÿ the market price of ETP’s or Regency’s Common Units, as applicable, may decline. The payment of distributions on any additional units issued by ETP or Regency may increase the risk that ETP or Regency, as applicable, may not have sufficient cash available to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to meet our obligations. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Although we control ETP and Regency through our ownership of their respective General Partners, ETP’s General Partner owes fiduciary duties to ETP and ETP’s Unitholders, and Regency’s General Partner owes fiduciary duties to Regency and Regency’s Unitholders, which may conflict with our interests. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and ETP, Regency and their respective limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and 38 Table of Contents officers of ETP’s and Regency’s General Partners have fiduciary duties to manage ETP and Regency, respectively, in a manner beneficial to us. At the same time, the General Partners have fiduciary duties to manage ETP and Regency, respectively, in a manner beneficial to ETP, Regency and their respective limited partners. The board of directors of ETP’s General Partner Regency’s general partner will resolve any such conflict and have broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest. For example, conflicts of interest with ETP or Regency may arise in the following situations: Ÿ the allocation of shared overhead expenses to ETP, Regency and us; Ÿ the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and ETP or Regency, on the other hand; Ÿ the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to ETP’s or Regency’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of ETP’s or Regency’s business; Ÿ the determination whether to make borrowings under ETP’s or Regency’s respective revolving credit facility to pay distributions to ETP’s or Regency’s partners, as applicable; and Ÿ any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of ETP or Regency. The fiduciary duties of our General Partner’s officers and directors may conflict with those of ETP’s or Regency’s respective General Partners. Conflicts of interest may arise because of the relationships among ETP, Regency, their General Partners and us. Our General Partner’s directors and officers have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our Unitholders. Some of our General Partner’s directors are also directors and officers of ETP’s General Partner or Regency’s General Partner, and have fiduciary duties to manage the respective businesses of ETP and Regency in a manner beneficial to ETP, Regency and their respective Unitholders. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our Unitholders. Affiliates of our General Partner are not prohibited from competing with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our General Partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our General Partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Except as provided in our partnership agreement, affiliates of our General Partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our General Partner, its affiliates and us. Our General Partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us. Conflicts of interest may arise among our General Partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following: Ÿ Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including ETP, Regency and their respective affiliates and any General Partners and limited partnerships acquired in the future, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duties to us. Ÿ Our General Partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the terms of our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, Unitholders consent to various actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. 39 Table of Contents Ÿ Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution. Ÿ Our General Partner determines which costs it and its affiliates have incurred are reimbursable by us. Ÿ Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such payments or additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us. Ÿ Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. Ÿ Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to us and restricts the remedies available for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement: Ÿ permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner; Ÿ provides that our General Partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it reasonably believes that the decisions are in our best interests; Ÿ generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Audit and Conflicts Committee of the board of directors of our General Partner and not involving a vote of Unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our General Partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and Ÿ provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the General Partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require Unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of our outstanding units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, Unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of December 31, 2010, the equity owners of our General Partner and their affiliates owned approximately 31% of our Common Units. 40 Table of Contents We own an interstate pipeline that is subject to rate regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and, in the event that 15% or more of our outstanding Common Units, in the aggregate, are held by persons who are not eligible holders, Common Units held by persons who are not eligible holders will be subject to the possibility of redemption at the then-current market price. We own interstate pipelines that are subject to rate regulation of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, FERC, and as a result our General Partner has the right under our partnership agreement to institute procedures, by giving notice to each of our Unitholders, that would require transferees of Common Units and, upon the request of our General Partner, existing holders of our Common Units to certify that they are Eligible Holders. The purpose of these certification procedures would be to enable us to utilize a federal income tax expense as a component of the pipeline’s rate base upon which tariffs may be established under FERC rate-making policies applicable to entities that pass-through their taxable income to their owners. Eligible Holders are individuals or entities subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If these tax certification procedures are implemented and 15% or more of our outstanding Common Units are held by persons who are not Eligible Holders, we will have the right to redeem the units held by persons who are not Eligible Holders at the then-current market price. The redemption price would be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner. Risks Related to the Businesses of ETP and Regency Since our cash flows consist exclusively of distributions from ETP and Regency, risks to the businesses of ETP and Regency are also risks to us. We have set forth below risks to the businesses of ETP and Regency, the occurrence of which could have a negative impact on their respective financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distributed to us. ETP and Regency are exposed to the credit risk of their respective customers, and an increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by their respective customers could reduce their respective ability to make distributions to their Unitholders, including to us. The risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by ETP’s and Regency’s respective customers are a major concern in their respective businesses. Participants in the energy industry have been subjected to heightened scrutiny from the financial markets in light of past collapses and failures of other energy companies. ETP and Regency are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by their respective customers. The current tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for customers to obtain financing and, depending on the degree to which this occurs, there may be a material increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by ETP’s and Regency’s customers. Any substantial increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by ETP’s or Regency’s customers could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s or Regency’s respective results of operations and operating cash flows. The profitability of certain activities in midstream and intrastate transportation and storage operations are largely dependent upon natural gas commodity prices, price spreads between two or more physical locations and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are factors beyond ETP’s or Regency’s control and have been volatile. Income from midstream and intrastate transportation and storage operations is exposed to risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and ETP and Regency expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2010, the NYMEX settlement price for the prompt month contract ranged from a high of $5.81 per million Btu, or MMBtu to a low of $3.29 per MMBtu. Additionally, a composite of the Mt. Belvieu average NGLs price based upon ETP’s average NGLs composition during the year ended December 31, 2010 ranged from a high of approximately $1.25 per gallon to a low of approximately $1.00 per gallon. 41 Table of Contents The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond ETP’s and Regency’s control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: Ÿ the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; Ÿ the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; Ÿ the availability of imported oil and natural gas; Ÿ actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; Ÿ the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; Ÿ the price, availability and marketing of competitive fuels; Ÿ the demand for electricity; Ÿ the impact of energy conservation efforts; and Ÿ the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. The use of derivative financial instruments could result in material financial losses by ETP and Regency. From time to time, ETP and Regency have sought to limit a portion of the adverse effects resulting from changes in natural gas and other commodity prices and interest rates by using derivative financial instruments and other risk management mechanisms. To the extent that either ETP or Regency hedges its commodity price and interest rate exposures, it foregoes the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change favorably. In addition, even though monitored by management, ETP’s and Regency’s derivatives activities can result in losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the derivative arrangement, the hedge is imperfect, commodity prices move unfavorably related to ETP’s or Regency’s physical or financial positions, or internal hedging policies and procedures are not followed. ETP’s and Regency’s success depends upon their ability to continually contract for new sources of natural gas supply and natural gas transportation services. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on ETP’s and Regency’s gathering and transportation pipeline systems and asset utilization rates at their treating and processing plants, ETP and Regency must continually contract for new natural gas supplies and natural gas transportation services. ETP and Regency may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies for their natural gas gathering systems, and they may be unable to maintain or increase the levels of natural gas throughput on their transportation pipelines. The primary factors affecting ETP’s and Regency’s ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to their gathering systems include its success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity and production of natural gas near ETP’s and Regency’s gathering systems or in areas that provide access to its transportation pipelines or markets to which their systems connect. The primary factors affecting ETP’s and Regency’s ability to attract customers to their transportation pipelines consist of their access to other natural gas pipelines, natural gas markets, natural gasfired power plants and other industrial end-users and the level of drilling and production of natural gas in areas connected to these pipelines and systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity and production generally decrease as oil and natural gas prices decrease. ETP and Regency have no control over the level of drilling activity in their areas of operation, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well will decline, sometimes referred to as the “decline rate.” In addition, ETP and Regency have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. 42 Table of Contents A substantial portion of ETP’s and Regency’s assets, including their gathering systems and their processing and treating plants, are connected to natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Accordingly, ETP’s and Regency’s cash flows will also decline unless they are able to access new supplies of natural gas by connecting additional production to these systems. ETP’s and Regency’s transportation pipelines are also dependent upon natural gas production in areas served by their pipelines or in areas served by other gathering systems or transportation pipelines that connect with their transportation pipelines. A material decrease in natural gas production in ETP’s and Regency’s areas of operation or in other areas that are connected to ETP’s or Regency’s areas of operation by third party gathering systems or pipelines, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas ETP and Regency handle, which would reduce their respective revenues and operating income. In addition, ETP’s and Regency’s future growth will depend, in part, upon whether they can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the natural decline rate in their currently connected supplies. ETP and Regency may not be able to fully execute their growth strategies if they encounter increased competition for qualified assets. ETP and Regency each have strategies that contemplate growth through the development and acquisition of a wide range of midstream and other energy infrastructure assets while maintaining strong balance sheets. These strategies include constructing and acquiring additional assets and businesses to enhance their ability to compete effectively and diversify their respective asset portfolios, thereby providing more stable cash flow. ETP and Regency regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding, and are currently contemplating, the acquisition of additional assets and businesses, stand alone development projects or other transactions that ETP and Regency believe will present opportunities to realize synergies and increase cash flow. Consistent with their acquisition strategies, managements of ETP and Regency is continuously engaged in discussions with potential sellers regarding the possible acquisition of additional assets or businesses. Such acquisition efforts may involve ETP or Regency management’s participation in processes that involve a number of potential buyers, commonly referred to as “auction” processes, as well as situations in which ETP or Regency believes it is the only party or one of a very limited number of potential buyers in negotiations with the potential seller. We cannot assure that ETP’s or Regency’s current or future acquisition efforts will be successful or that any such acquisition will be completed on favorable terms. In addition, ETP and Regency each are experiencing increased competition for the assets they purchase or contemplate purchasing. Increased competition for a limited pool of assets could result in ETP or Regency losing to other bidders more often or acquiring assets at higher prices, both of which would limit ETP’s or Regency’s ability to fully execute their respective growth strategies. Inability to execute their respective growth strategies may materially adversely impact ETP’s or Regency’s results of operations. If ETP and Regency do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, their future growth could be limited. ETP’s and Regency’s results of operations and their ability to grow and to increase distributions to Unitholders will depend in part on their ability to make acquisitions that are accretive to their respective distributable cash flow. ETP and Regency may be unable to make accretive acquisitions for any of the following reasons, among others: Ÿ inability to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; Ÿ inability to raise financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or Ÿ inability to outbid by competitors, some of which are substantially larger than ETP or Regency and may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital. 43 Table of Contents Furthermore, even if ETP or Regency consummates acquisitions that it believes will be accretive, those acquisitions may in fact adversely affect its results of operations or result in a decrease in distributable cash flow per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including the risk that ETP or Regency may: Ÿ fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; Ÿ decrease its liquidity by using a significant portion of its available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; Ÿ significantly increase its interest expense or financial leverage if the acquisition is financed with additional debt; Ÿ encounter difficulties operating in new geographic areas or new lines of business; Ÿ incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or assets acquired for which there is no indemnity or the indemnity is inadequate; Ÿ be unable to hire, train or retrain qualified personnel to manage and operate its growing business and assets; Ÿ less effectively manage its historical assets, due to the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; or Ÿ incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. If ETP and Regency consummate future acquisitions, their respective capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. As ETP and Regency determine the application of their funds and other resources, Unitholders will not have an opportunity to evaluate the economics, financial and other relevant information that ETP and Regency will consider. If ETP and Regency do not continue to construct new pipelines, their future growth could be limited. During the past several years, ETP and Regency have constructed several new pipelines, and ETP and Regency are currently involved in constructing additional pipelines. ETP’s and Regency’s results of operations and their ability to grow and to increase distributable cash flow per unit will depend, in part, on their ability to construct pipelines that are accretive to their respective distributable cash flow. ETP or Regency may be unable to construct pipelines that are accretive to distributable cash flow for any of the following reasons, among others: Ÿ inability to identify pipeline construction opportunities with favorable projected financial returns; Ÿ inability to raise financing for its identified pipeline construction opportunities; or Ÿ inability to secure sufficient natural gas transportation commitments from potential customers due to competition from other pipeline construction projects or for other reasons. Furthermore, even if ETP or Regency constructs a pipeline that it believes will be accretive, the pipeline may in fact adversely affect its results of operations or fail to achieve results projected prior to commencement of construction. Expanding ETP’s and Regency’s business by constructing new pipelines and treating and processing facilities subjects ETP and Regency to risks. One of the ways that ETP and Regency have grown their respective businesses is through the construction of additions to existing gathering, compression, treating, processing and transportation systems. The construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding additional compression capabilities or by adding a second pipeline along an existing pipeline, and the construction of new processing or treating facilities, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond ETP’s and Regency’s 44 Table of Contents control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital to be financed through borrowings, the issuance of additional equity or from operating cash flow. If ETP or Regency undertakes these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. A variety of factors outside ETP’s or Regency’s control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as the performance by third-party contractors may result in increased costs or delays in construction. Cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s or Regency’s results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, revenues may not increase immediately following the completion of a particular project. For instance, if ETP or Regency builds a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, but ETP or Regency, as applicable, may not materially increase its revenues until long after the project’s completion. In addition, the success of a pipeline construction project will likely depend upon the level of natural gas exploration and development drilling activity and the demand for pipeline transportation in the areas proposed to be serviced by the project as well as ETP’s and Regency’s abilities to obtain commitments from producers in these areas to utilize the newly constructed pipelines. In this regard, ETP and Regency may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may be unable to attract enough throughput or contracted capacity reservation commitments to achieve ETP’s or Regency’s expected investment return, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. ETP and Regency depend on certain key producers for a significant portion of their supplies of natural gas. The loss of, or reduction in, any of these key producers could adversely affect ETP’s or Regency’s respective business and operating results. ETP and Regency rely on a limited number of producers for a significant portion of their natural gas supplies. These contracts have terms that range from month-to-month to life of lease. As these contracts expire, ETP and Regency will have to negotiate extensions or renewals or replace the contracts with those of other suppliers. ETP and Regency may be unable to obtain new or renewed contracts on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the volumes of natural gas supplied by these producers and other customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s and Regency’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. ETP and Regency depend on key customers to transport natural gas through their pipelines. ETP and Regency rely on a limited number of major shippers to transport certain minimum volumes of natural gas on their respective pipelines, and Regency maintains contracts for compression services with a limited number of key customers. The failure of the major shippers on ETP’s or Regency’s pipelines or of other key customers to fulfill their contractual obligations under these contracts could have a material adverse effect on the cash flow and results of operations of us, ETP or Regency if ETP or Regency, as applicable, was not able to replace these customers under arrangements that provide similar economic benefits as these existing contracts. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect the business and operations of ETP’s or Regency’s midstream and intrastate assets. Midstream and intrastate transportation and storage operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, but FERC regulation still significantly affects ETP’s and Regency’s businesses and the market for their products. The rates, terms and conditions of some of the transportation and storage services ETP provides on the HPL System, the East Texas pipeline, the Oasis pipeline and the ET Fuel System are subject to FERC regulation under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act (“NGPA”) similarly, FERC regulates the rates, terms and conditions of services with regard to Section 311 service provided by RIGS. Under Section 311, rates charged for transportation and storage must be fair and equitable. Amounts collected in excess of fair and equitable rates are subject to refund with interest, and the terms and conditions of service, set forth in the pipeline’s statement of operating conditions, are subject to FERC review and approval. Should the FERC determine not to authorize rates equal to or greater than its currently approved rates, ETP or Regency may suffer a loss of revenue. Failure to observe the service limitations applicable to storage and transportation service under Section 311, failure to 45 Table of Contents comply with the rates approved by FERC for Section 311 service, and failure to comply with the terms and conditions of service established in the pipeline’s FERC-approved statement of operating conditions could result in an alteration of jurisdictional status and/or the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. FERC has adopted new market-monitoring and annual and quarterly reporting regulations, which regulations are applicable to many intrastate pipelines as well as other entities that are otherwise not subject to FERC’s NGA jurisdiction, such as natural gas marketers. These regulations are intended to increase the transparency of wholesale energy markets, to protect the integrity of such markets, and to improve FERC’s ability to assess market forces and detect market manipulation. These regulations may result in administrative burdens and additional compliance costs for ETP and Regency. The expansion phase of RIGS in North Louisiana was placed in service on January 27, 2010. On January 28, 2010, RIGS filed and implemented revised rates with FERC, which reflects on a system-wide basis, the costs of and contracts for the use of the expanded RIGS system. The rate case reflected a substantial increase in the rate base of RIGS, as well as increased costs, including return and income taxes, arising from the Haynesville Expansion Project and Red River Lateral. On June 15, 2010, RIGS filed an uncontested offer of settlement proposing to resolve all issues related to RIGS’ January 28, 2010 rate filing. Among other things, the offer of settlement would allow RIGS to place the revised rates in effect on February 1, 2010 and to avoid any refund obligations. RIGS’ shippers are subject, in large part, to fixed or capped contract rates and as such may be largely unaffected by any increase in RIGS’ maximum rates. The proposed settlement, which was made subject to a shortened comment period, was not protested or made the subject of adverse comments by any party. The uncontested offer of settlement was accepted by FERC by order issued June 24, 2010. Although the FERC order accepting the RIGS offer of settlement constitutes a final agency action it is still subject to possible rehearing and judicial appeal. It is thus still possible that FERC may undertake a comprehensive review of the new rates and RIGS’ operations and terms of service. FERC has the statutory authority to require a refund, with interest, of RIGS’ rates from February 1, 2010. The timing and outcome of this proceeding thus remains uncertain. If FERC requires adjustments, including potential refunds, to the revised transportation rate, or if any contract rates to which RIGS has agreed are below the maximum rates it otherwise could charge, Regency’s cash flows and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected. Such results could have a material adverse affect on HPC, the owner of RIGS, and Regency’s results of operations and business through its own ownership interest in HPC. ETP and Regency hold transportation contracts with interstate pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation. As shippers on an interstate pipeline, ETP and Regency are subject to FERC requirements related to use of the interstate capacity. Any failure on ETP’s or Regency’s part to comply with the FERC’s regulations or orders could result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. ETP’s intrastate transportation and storage operations are subject to state regulation in Texas, Louisiana, Utah and Colorado, the states in which ETP conducts this type of operation. Regency’s intrastate transportation operations are subject to regulation in Louisiana, the state in which Regency conducts this type of operation. ETP’s intrastate transportation operations located in Texas are subject to regulation as common purchasers and as gas utilities by the TRRC. The TRRC’s jurisdiction extends to both rates and pipeline safety. The rates ETP charges for transportation and storage services are deemed just and reasonable under Texas law unless challenged in a complaint. Should a complaint be filed or should regulation become more active, ETP’s or Regency’s business may be adversely affected. ETP’s and Regency’s midstream and intrastate transportation operations are also subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states in which they conduct those types of operations. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without 46 Table of Contents undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes have the effect of restricting ETP’s or Regency’s rights as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it contracts to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and some of the states in which ETP and Regency operate have adopted complaint-based or other limited economic regulation of natural gas gathering activities. States in which ETP and Regency operate that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Texas, generally allow natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering rates and access. Other state and local regulations also affect ETP’s or Regency’s business. ETP’s storage facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the TRRC. Generally, the TRRC has jurisdiction over all underground storage of natural gas in Texas, unless the facility is part of or connected to an interstate gas pipeline system. Because the natural gas storage facilities of the ET Fuel System and HPL System are only connected to intrastate gas pipelines, they fall within the TRRC’s jurisdiction and must be operated pursuant to TRRC permit. Certain changes in ownership or operation of TRRC-jurisdictional storage facilities, such as facility expansions and increases in the maximum operating pressure, must be approved by the TRRC through an amendment to the facility’s existing permit. In addition, the TRRC must approve transfers of the permits. Texas laws and regulations also require all natural gas storage facilities to be operated to prevent waste, the uncontrolled escape of gas, pollution and danger to life or property. Accordingly, the TRRC requires natural gas storage facilities to implement certain safety, monitoring, reporting and record-keeping measures. Violations of the terms and provisions of a TRRC permit or a TRRC order or regulation can result in the modification, cancellation or suspension of an operating permit and/or civil penalties, injunctive relief, or both. The states in which ETP and Regency conduct operations administer federal pipeline safety standards under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (“Pipeline Safety Act”) which requires certain pipeline companies to comply with safety standards in constructing and operating the pipelines, and subjects pipelines to regular inspections. Some of ETP’s gathering facilities are exempt from the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Act. In respect to recent pipeline accidents in other parts of the country, Congress and the DOT are considering heightened pipeline safety requirements. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal remedies. ETP’s and Regency’s interstate pipelines are subject to laws, regulations and policies governing the rates they are allowed to charge for their services. Laws, regulations and policies governing interstate natural gas pipeline rates could affect the ability of ETP’s and Regency’s interstate pipelines to establish rates, to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs, or to continue to collect rates that cover current costs. NGA-jurisdictional natural gas companies must charge rates that are deemed just and reasonable by FERC. The rates charged by natural gas companies are generally required to be on file with FERC in FERC-approved tariffs. Pursuant to the NGA, existing tariff rates may be challenged by complaint and rate increases proposed by the natural gas company may be challenged by protest. ETP and Regency also may be limited by the terms of negotiated rate agreements from seeking future rate increases, or constrained by competitive factors from charging its FERC-approved maximum just and reasonable rates. Further, the FERC has the ability, on a prospective basis, order refunds of amounts collected under rates that have been found by FERC to be in excess of a just and reasonable level. Transwestern filed a general rate case in September 2006. The rates in this proceeding were settled and are final and no longer subject to refund. Transwestern is not required to file a new general rate case until October 2011. However, shippers (other than shippers that have agreed, as parties to the Stipulation and Agreement, not to challenge Transwestern’s tariff rates through the remaining term of the settlement) have the statutory ability to challenge the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. FERC may also investigate such rates on its own initiative. 47 Table of Contents Most of the rates to be paid by the initial shippers on the Midcontinent Express pipeline are established pursuant to long-term, negotiated rate transportation agreements. Other prospective shippers on Midcontinent Express pipeline that elect not to pay a negotiated rate for service may opt instead to pay a cost-based recourse rate established by FERC as part of MEP’s certificate of public convenience and necessity. Negotiated rate agreements generally provide a degree of certainty to the pipeline and shipper as to a fixed rate during the term of the relevant transportation agreement, but such agreements can limit the pipeline’s future ability to collect costs associated with construction and operation of the pipeline that might be higher than anticipated at the time the negotiated rate agreement was entered. FERC applications for authorization to construct, own and operate the Fayetteville Express pipeline and the Tiger pipeline were filed on June 15, 2009 and August 31, 2009, respectively. On December 17, 2009, the FERC issued an order granting authorization to construct, own and operated the Fayetteville Express pipeline, and on April 7, 2010, the FERC issued an order granting authorization to construct, own and operate the Tiger pipeline. On June 17, 2010, ETP filed an application for authorization to construct, own and operate the Tiger pipeline expansion project to add 400 MMcf/d of capacity to the Tiger pipeline. In February 2011, ETP accepted the FERC’s order authorizing the construction and operation of this expansion project. Any successful challenge to the rates of ETP’s or Regency’s interstate natural gas companies, whether brought by complaint, protest or investigation, could reduce its revenues associated with providing transportation services on a prospective basis. We, ETP and Regency cannot assure Unitholders that ETP’s or Regency’s interstate pipelines will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. The ability of interstate pipelines held in tax-pass-through entities, like ETP and Regency, to include an allowance for income taxes in their regulated rates has been subject to extensive litigation before FERC and the courts, and the FERC’s current policy is subject to future refinement or change. The ability of interstate pipelines held in tax-pass-through entities, like ETP and Regency, to include an allowance for income taxes as a cost-of-service element in their regulated rates has been subject to extensive litigation before FERC and the courts for a number of years. It is currently FERC’s policy to permit pipelines to include in cost-of-service a tax allowance to reflect actual or potential income tax liability on their public utility income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests, if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. Whether a pipeline’s owners have such actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by FERC on a case-by-case basis. Under the FERC’s policy, ETP and Regency thus remain eligible to include an income tax allowance in the tariff rates their interstate pipelines charge for interstate natural gas transportation. The application of that policy remains subject to future refinement or change by FERC. With regard to rates charged and collected by Transwestern, the allowance for income taxes as a cost-of-service element in ETP’s tariff rates is generally not subject to challenge prior to the expiration of its settlement agreement in 2011. The interstate pipelines are subject to laws, regulations and policies governing terms and conditions of service, which could adversely affect their business and operations. In addition to rate oversight, the FERC’s regulatory authority extends to many other aspects of the business and operations of ETP’s and Regency’s interstate pipelines, including: Ÿ operating terms and conditions of service; Ÿ the types of services interstate pipelines may offer their customers; Ÿ construction of new facilities; Ÿ acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; Ÿ reporting and information posting requirements; Ÿ accounts and records; and Ÿ relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. 48 Table of Contents Compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome. Future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair the ability of ETP’s and Regency’s interstate pipelines to compete for business, may impair their ability to recover costs or may increase the cost and burden of operation. ETP and Regency must on occasion rely upon rulings by the FERC or other governmental authorities to carry out certain of their business plans. For example, in order to carry out its plan to construct the Fayetteville Express and Tiger pipelines ETP was required to, among other things, file and support before the FERC NGA Section 7(c) applications for certificates of public convenience and necessity to build, own and operate such facilities. ETP and Regency cannot guarantee that FERC will authorize construction and operation of any future interstate natural gas transportation project it might propose. ETP and Regency are required to attain approval from the FERC for expansions of their pipeline facilities. ETP cannot guarantee that the FERC will authorize any future interstate natural gas transportation project ETP might propose. Moreover, there is no guarantee that certificate authority for interstate projects will be granted in a timely manner or without being subject to potentially burdensome conditions. Similarly, MEP was required to obtain from FERC a certificate of public convenience and necessity to build, own and operate the Midcontinent Express pipeline. Although the FERC has granted such certificate authority, the FERC’s certificate order is currently pending judicial review before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. ETP and Regency cannot guarantee that the court will affirm, in all material respects, the FERC’s July 25, 2008 Midcontinent Express certificate order, or that the FERC will not materially alter the certificate order on any remand that might be ordered by the court. There are also pending requests for rehearing related to certain of the FERC’s post-certification orders related to the Midcontinent Express project. ETP and Regency cannot guarantee that these post-certification orders will not be altered on rehearing or that these orders will not be subject to judicial review. Failure to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, could bring substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation. FERC possesses similar authority under the NGPA. Finally, we, ETP and Regency cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which ETP or Regency will operate its interstate pipelines or the effect such regulation could have on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. A change in the characterization of some of ETP’s or Regency’s assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation and cost. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission service and intrastate transportation or gathering services is the subject of regular litigation at FERC and in the courts and of policy discussions at FERC. The classification and regulation of some of the ETP or Regency gathering facilities or intrastate transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. Such a change could result in increased regulation by FERC, which may cause revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. ETP’s and Regency’s businesses involve hazardous substances and may be adversely affected by environmental regulation. ETP’s and Regency’s natural gas operations and ETP’s propane operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations that seek to protect human health and the environment, including those governing the emission or discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of permits for ETP’s and Regency’s operations, result in capital expenditures to manage, limit, or prevent emissions, discharges or releases of various materials from ETP’s and Regency’s pipelines, plants and facilities and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from ETP’s and Regency’s operations. Several governmental authorities, such as the EPA have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations 49 Table of Contents and the permits issued under them and frequently mandate difficult and costly remediation measures and other actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctive relief. ETP and Regency may incur substantial environmental costs and liabilities because of the underlying risk inherent to its operations. Certain environmental laws and regulations can provide for joint and several strict liability for cleanup to address discharges or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons or other materials or wastes at sites to which ETP or Regency may have sent wastes or on, under, or from ETP’s and Regency’s properties and facilities, many of which have been used for industrial activities for a number of years, even if such discharges were caused by ETP’s and Regency’s respective predecessors. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which ETP’s and Regency’s gathering systems pass or facilities where their petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. For example, the total accrued future estimated cost of remediation activities relating to ETP’s Transwestern pipeline operations was approximately $8.2 million as of December 31, 010, which is included in the aggregate environmental accruals, and such activities are expected to continue through 2025. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and changes that result in significantly more stringent and costly waste handling, emission standards, or storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s and Regency’s operations or financial position. For example, the EPA in 2008 lowered the federal ozone standard from 0.08 ppm to 0.075 ppm, which will require the environmental agencies in states with areas that do not currently meet this standard to adopt new rules to further reduce NOx and other ozone precursor emissions. The EPA recently proposed to lower the standard even further, to somewhere between 0.06 and 0.07 ppm. ETP and Regency have previously been able to satisfy the more stringent NOx emission reduction requirements that affect its compressor units in ozone non-attainment areas at reasonable cost, but there is no guarantee that the changes ETP or Regency may have to make in the future to meet the new ozone standard or other evolving standards will not require it to incur costs that could be material to its operations. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that ETP and Regency transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with their transportation, storage, and midstream services. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA’s rules relating to emissions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent EPA from implementing, or requiring state environmental agencies to implement, the rules. In addition, the United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas 50 Table of Contents processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require ETP or Regency to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, natural gas or NGLs. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on ETP’s or Regency’s businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. Some have suggested that one consequence of climate change could be increased severity of extreme weather, such as increased hurricanes and floods. If such effects were to occur, the operations of ETP and Regency could be adversely affected in various ways, including damages to their facilities from powerful winds or rising waters, or increased costs for insurance. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. The market for ETP’s propane and ETP’s and Regency’s natural gas is generally improved by periods of colder weather and impaired by periods of warmer weather, so any changes in climate could affect the market for the fuels that ETP and Regency produce. Despite the use of the term “global warming” as a shorthand for climate change, some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially colder than their historical averages. As a result, it is difficult to predict how the market for ETP’s and Regency’s fuels could be affected by increased temperature volatility, although if there is an overall trend of warmer temperatures, it would be expected to have an adverse effect on the business of ETP and Regency. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could slow ETP’s and Regency’s customers’ development of shale gas supplies. Congress is considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of these bills, which are pending in the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Environmental and Public Works Committee of the House of Representatives and Senate, respectively, have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that chemicals used in the fracturing process had adversely affected groundwater. If adopted, these bills also would establish additional federal permitting and regulatory requirements that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs. In addition, the EPA recently announced that it was beginning a comprehensive research study on the potential impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. Consequently, even if the introduced bills are not enacted, EPA’s study could spur further action at a later date toward additional federal legislation and regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities. Legislative and regulatory initiatives have also arisen in several states, including New York and Pennsylvania. By slowing the pace of natural gas development, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements on hydraulic fracturing could affect the financial performance of ETP’s and Regency’s existing and planned pipeline systems, particularly those serving the Barnett and Haynesville production areas or other shale gas plays. Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, ETP’s and Regency’s shippers in interconnecting, third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in ETP’s and Regency’s pipelines, which would adversely affect revenues and cash flow. Users of ETP’s and Regency’s pipelines are dependent upon connections to and from third-party pipelines to receive and deliver natural gas and NGLs. Any reduction in the capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due 51 Table of Contents to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes could result in reduced volumes being transported in ETP’s and Regency’s pipelines. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of natural gas and NGLs over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to existing shippers in these pipelines would be reduced, which could also reduce volumes transported in ETP’s and Regency’s pipelines. Any reduction in volumes transported in ETP’s and Regency’s pipelines would adversely affect their revenues and cash flow. ETP and Regency encounter competition from other midstream, transportation and storage companies and propane companies. ETP and Regency compete with similar enterprises in each of their areas of operations. Some of their competitors are large oil, natural gas, gathering and processing and natural gas pipeline companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas. In addition, ETP’s and Regency’s customers who are significant producers or consumers of NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using those of ETP or Regency. Similarly, competitors may establish new connections with pipeline systems that would create additional competition for services that ETP and Regency provide to their customers. ETP’s and Regency’s ability to renew or replace existing contracts with their customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of their competitors. The Transwestern, Midcontinent Express, Fayetteville Express, Tiger and Gulf States pipelines compete with other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies in the transportation and storage of natural gas. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service and the flexibility and reliability of service. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to ETP’s and Regency’s customers and end-users, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The primary competitive factor is price. Changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the capability to convert to alternate fuels and other factors, including weather and natural gas storage levels, affect the levels of natural gas transportation volumes in the areas served by ETP’s and Regency’s pipelines. ETP’s propane business competes with a number of large national and regional propane companies and several thousand small independent propane companies. Because of the relatively low barriers to entry into the retail propane market, there is potential for small independent propane retailers, as well as other companies that may not currently be engaged in retail propane distribution, to compete with ETP’s retail outlets. As a result, ETP is always subject to the risk of additional competition in the future. Generally, warmer-than-normal weather further intensifies competition. Most of ETP’s retail propane branch locations compete with several other marketers or distributors in their service areas. The principal factors influencing competition with other retail propane marketers are: Ÿ price; Ÿ reliability and quality of service; Ÿ responsiveness to customer needs; Ÿ safety concerns; Ÿ long-standing customer relationships; Ÿ the inconvenience of switching tanks and suppliers; and Ÿ the lack of growth in the industry. The natural gas contract compression business is highly competitive, and there are low barriers to entry for individual projects. In addition, some of Regency’s competitors are large national and multinational companies that have greater financial and other resources. Regency’s ability to renew or replace existing contracts with its customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the 52 Table of Contents activities of its competitors and its customers. If Regency’s competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, Regency may be unable to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or construct newer or more powerful compressor fleets that would create additional competition for Regency. In addition, Regency’s customers that are significant producers of natural gas and crude oil may purchase and operate their own compressor fleets in lieu of using Regency’s natural gas contract compression services. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on Regency’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The inability to continue to access tribal lands could adversely affect Transwestern’s ability to operate its pipeline system and the inability to recover the cost of right-of-way grants on tribal lands could adversely affect its financial results. Transwestern’s ability to operate its pipeline system on certain lands held in trust by the United States for the benefit of a Native American tribe, which we refer to as tribal lands, will depend on its success in maintaining existing rights-of-way and obtaining new rights-of-way on those tribal lands. Securing extensions of existing and any additional rights-of-way is also critical to Transwestern’s ability to pursue expansion projects. We cannot provide any assurance that Transwestern will be able to acquire new rights-of-way on tribal lands or maintain access to existing rights-of-way upon the expiration of the current grants. ETP’s financial position could be adversely affected if the costs of new or extended right-of-way grants cannot be recovered in rates. Transwestern’s existing right-of-way agreements with the Navajo Nation, Southern Ute, Pueblo of Laguna and Fort Mojave tribes extend through November 2029, September 2020, December 2022 and April 2019, respectively. ETP and Regency may be unable to bypass the processing plants, which could expose them to the risk of unfavorable processing margins. ETP and Regency can generally elect to bypass their respective processing plants when processing margins are unfavorable and instead deliver pipeline-quality gas by blending rich gas from the gathering systems with lean gas transported on the their other gathering pipelines and systems. In some circumstances, such as when ETP and Regency do not have a sufficient amount of lean gas to blend with the volume of rich gas that they receive at the processing plant, ETP and Regency may have to process the rich gas. If ETP or Regency has to process gas when processing margins are unfavorable, its results of operations will be adversely affected. ETP and Regency may be unable to retain existing customers or secure new customers, which would reduce their revenues and limit its future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with ETP’s and Regency’s customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets ETP and Regency serve. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are increasingly reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternate fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are many companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with ETP and Regency in the marketing of natural gas, ETP and Regency often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of ETP’s or Regency’s management to renew or replace its current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could have a negative effect on ETP’s or Regency’s profitability. 53 Table of Contents ETP’s storage business may depend on neighboring pipelines to transport natural gas. To obtain natural gas, ETP’s storage business depends on the pipelines to which they have access. Many of these pipelines are owned by parties not affiliated with ETP or Regency. Any interruption of service on those pipelines or adverse change in their terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s or Regency’s ability, and the ability of its customers, to transport natural gas to and from its facilities and a corresponding material adverse effect on ETP’s storage revenues. In addition, the rates charged by those interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from ETP’s facilities affect the utilization and value of its storage services. Significant changes in the rates charged by those pipelines or the rates charged by other pipelines with which the interconnected pipelines compete could also have a material adverse effect on ETP’s storage revenues. ETP’s and Regency’s pipeline integrity programs may cause them to incur significant costs and liabilities. ETP’s and Regency’s pipeline operations are subject to regulation by the DOT, under the Pipeline Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”) pursuant to which the PHMSA has established regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. Moreover, the PHMSA, through the Office of Pipeline Safety, has promulgated a rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines, and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rule refers to as “high consequence areas.” Activities under these integrity management programs involve the performance of internal pipeline inspections, pressure testing or other effective means to assess the integrity of these regulated pipeline segments, and the regulations require prompt action to address integrity issues raised by the assessment and analysis. Based on the results of ETP’s current pipeline integrity testing programs, ETP estimates that compliance with these federal regulations and analogous state pipeline integrity requirements will result in capital costs of $12.1 million and operating and maintenance costs of $10.4 million over the course of the next year, while Regency estimates that compliance with these federal regulations and analogous state pipeline integrity requirements will results in $0.2 million. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, $13.3 million, $31.4 million and $23.3 million, respectively, of capital costs and $15.4 million, $18.5 million and $13.1 million, respectively, of operating and maintenance costs have been incurred for pipeline integrity testing by ETP. Integrity testing and assessment of all of these assets will continue, and the potential exists that results of such testing and assessment could cause ETP or Regency to incur material capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of their pipelines. Changes in other forms of health and safety regulations are also being considered. New pipeline safety legislation requiring more stringent spill reporting and disclosure obligations has been introduced in the U.S. Congress and was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2010, but was not voted on in the U.S. Senate. Similar legislation is likely to be considered in the current session of Congress. The DOT has also recently proposed legislation providing for more stringent oversight of pipelines and increased penalties for violations of safety rules, which is in addition to the PHMSA’s announced intention to strengthen its rules. Such Legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on ETP’s or Regency’s operations through more stringent and comprehensive safety regulations and higher penalties for the violation of those regulations. Since weather conditions may adversely affect demand for propane, ETP’s financial condition may be vulnerable to warm winters. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for propane for heating purposes because the majority of ETP’s customers rely heavily on propane as a heating fuel. Typically, ETP sells approximately two-thirds of its retail propane volume during the peak-heating season of October through March. ETP’s results of operations can be adversely affected by warmer winter weather, which results in lower sales volumes. In addition, to the extent that warm weather or other factors adversely affect ETP’s operating and financial results, ETP’s access to capital and its acquisition activities may be limited. Variations in weather in one or more of the 54 Table of Contents regions where ETP operates can significantly affect the total volume of propane that ETP sells and the profits realized on these sales. Agricultural demand for propane may also be affected by weather, including unseasonably cold or hot periods or dry weather conditions that impact agricultural operations. A natural disaster, catastrophe or other event could result in severe personal injury, property damage and environmental damage, which could curtail ETP’s and Regency’s operations and otherwise materially adversely affect their cash flow. Some of ETP’s and Regency’s operations involve risks of personal injury, property damage and environmental damage, which could curtail its operations and otherwise materially adversely affect its cash flow. For example, natural gas facilities operate at high pressures, sometimes in excess of 1,100 pounds per square inch. Virtually all of ETP’s and Regency’s operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, storms, floods and/or earthquakes. If one or more facilities that are owned by ETP or Regency or that deliver natural gas or other products to ETP or Regency are damaged by severe weather or any other disaster, accident, catastrophe or event, ETP’s or Regency’s operations could be significantly interrupted. Similar interruptions could result from damage to production or other facilities that supply ETP’s or Regency’s facilities or other stoppages arising from factors beyond its control. These interruptions might involve significant damage to people, property or the environment, and repairs might take from a week or less for a minor incident to six months or more for a major interruption. Any event that interrupts the revenues generated by ETP’s or Regency’s operations, or which causes it to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could reduce ETP’s or Regency’s cash available for paying distributions to its Unitholders, including us. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, ETP and Regency may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If ETP or Regency were to incur a significant liability for which it was not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s or Regency’s financial position and results of operations, as applicable. In addition, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner and may be insufficient if such an event were to occur. Terrorist attacks aimed at ETP’s or Regency’s facilities could adversely affect its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, including the nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. Any terrorist attack on ETP’s or Regency’s facilities or pipelines or those of its customers could have a material adverse effect on ETP’s or Regency’s business, as applicable. Sudden and sharp propane price increases that cannot be passed on to customers may adversely affect ETP’s profit margins. The propane industry is a “margin-based” business in which gross profits depend on the excess of sales prices over supply costs. As a result, ETP’s profitability is sensitive to changes in energy prices, and in particular, changes in wholesale prices of propane. When there are sudden and sharp increases in the wholesale cost of propane, ETP may be unable to pass on these increases to its customers through retail or wholesale prices. Propane is a commodity and the price ETP pays for it can fluctuate significantly in response to changes in supply or other market conditions over which ETP has no control. In addition, the timing of cost pass-throughs can significantly affect margins. Sudden and extended wholesale price increases could reduce ETP’s gross profits and could, if continued over an extended period of time, reduce demand by encouraging ETP’s retail customers to conserve their propane usage or convert to alternative energy sources. 55 Table of Contents ETP’s results of operations could be negatively impacted by price and inventory risk related to its propane business and management of these risks. ETP generally attempts to minimize its cost and inventory risk related to its propane business by purchasing propane on a short-term basis under supply contracts that typically have a one-year term and at a cost that fluctuates based on the prevailing market prices at major delivery points. In order to help ensure adequate supply sources are available during periods of high demand, ETP may purchase large volumes of propane during periods of low demand or low price, which generally occur during the summer months, for storage in its facilities, at major storage facilities owned by third parties or for future delivery. This strategy may not be effective in limiting ETP’s cost and inventory risks if, for example, market, weather or other conditions prevent or allocate the delivery of physical product during periods of peak demand. If the market price falls below the cost at which ETP made such purchases, it could adversely affect its profits. Some of ETP’s propane sales are pursuant to commitments at fixed prices. To mitigate the price risk related to ETP’s anticipated sales volumes under the commitments, ETP may purchase and store physical product and/or enter into fixed price over-the-counter energy commodity forward contracts and options. Generally, over-the-counter energy commodity forward contracts have terms of less than one year. ETP enters into such contracts and exercises such options at volume levels that it believes are necessary to manage these commitments. The risk management of ETP’s inventory and contracts for the future purchase of product could impair its profitability if the customers do not fulfill their obligations. ETP also engages in other trading activities, and may enter into other types of over-the-counter energy commodity forward contracts and options. These trading activities are based on ETP management’s estimates of future events and prices and are intended to generate a profit. However, if those estimates are incorrect or other market events outside of ETP’s control occur, such activities could generate a loss in future periods and potentially impair its profitability. ETP is dependent on its principal propane suppliers, which increases the risk of an interruption in supply. During 2010, ETP purchased approximately 53.5%, 12.9% and 13.3% of its propane from Enterprise Products Operating L.P., Targa Liquids and M.P. Oils, Ltd., respectively. Enterprise owns approximately 17.6% of our outstanding Common Units. ETP purchases a portion of its propane requirements from Enterprise pursuant to an agreement that was extended until March 2015 and contains an option to renew for an additional year. If supplies from these sources were interrupted, the cost of procuring replacement supplies and transporting those supplies from alternative locations might be materially higher and, at least on a short-term basis, margins could be adversely affected. Supply from Canada is subject to the additional risk of disruption associated with foreign trade such as trade restrictions, shipping delays and political, regulatory and economic instability. Historically, a substantial portion of the propane that ETP purchases originated from one of the industry’s major markets located in Mt. Belvieu, Texas and has been shipped to ETP through major common carrier pipelines. Any significant interruption in the service at Mt. Belvieu or other major market points, or on the common carrier pipelines ETP uses, would adversely affect its ability to obtain propane. Competition from alternative energy sources may cause ETP to lose propane customers, thereby reducing its revenues. Competition in ETP’s propane business from alternative energy sources has been increasing as a result of reduced regulation of many utilities. Propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because natural gas is a less expensive source of energy than propane. The gradual expansion of natural gas distribution systems and the availability of natural gas in many areas that previously 56 Table of Contents depended upon propane could cause ETP to lose customers, thereby reducing its revenues. Fuel oil also competes with propane and is generally less expensive than propane. In addition, the successful development and increasing usage of alternative energy sources could adversely affect ETP’s operations. Energy efficiency and technological advances may affect the demand for propane and adversely affect ETP’s operating results. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, including installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other heating devices, has decreased the demand for propane by retail customers. Stricter conservation measures in the future or technological advances in heating, conservation, energy generation or other devices could adversely affect ETP’s operations. Regency’s contract compression operations depend on particular suppliers and is vulnerable to parts and equipment shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on its results of operations. The principal manufacturers of components for Regency’s natural gas compression equipment include Caterpillar, Inc. for engines, Air-X-Changers for coolers, and Ariel Corporation for compressors and frames. Regency’s reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. Regency also relies primarily on two vendors, Spitzer Industries Corp. and Standard Equipment Corp., to package and assemble its compression units. Regency does not have long-term contracts with these suppliers or packagers, and a partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on Regency’s results of operations and could damage its customer relationships. In addition, since Regency expects any increase in component prices for compression equipment or packaging costs will be passed on to Regency, a significant increase in their pricing could have a negative impact on Regency’s results of operations. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress recently adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (HR 4173), which, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. 57 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our continuing status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us, ETP or Regency as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we, ETP or Regency become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this matter. The value of our investments in ETP and Regency depends largely on ETP and Regency being treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we, ETP and Regency are each a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If we are so treated, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and we would likely pay additional state income taxes as well. If ETP or Regency were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes for any taxable year for which the statute of limitations remains open or for any future taxable year, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to us would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to us. As a result, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow. In either case, our available cash would be substantially reduced. The present tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our Common Units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, causing us or our subsidiaries to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us or our subsidiaries to entity-level taxation. For example, recently, members of the U.S. Congress considered substantive changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. Several states currently impose entity-level taxes on partnerships, including us. Further, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several additional states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any additional states were to impose a tax upon us or our subsidiaries as an entity, our cash available for distribution would be reduced. Any modification to the U.S. federal income or state tax laws, or interpretations thereof, may or may not be applied retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or any other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted, any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units or the Common Units of ETP or Regency. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of our structure is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of Unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law. The U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to Treasury Regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our Common Units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be 58 Table of Contents applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation (referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception”), affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our Common Units. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Internal Revenue Code section 7704(d). It is possible that these efforts could result in changes to the existing U.S. federal tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units as well as the value of an investment in ETP and Regency Common Units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we or our subsidiaries take, the market for our Common Units, ETP Common Units or Regency Common Units may be adversely affected and the costs of any such contest will reduce cash available for distributions to our Unitholders. Neither we nor our subsidiaries have requested a ruling from IRS with respect to our treatment as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we or our subsidiaries take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we or our subsidiaries take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we or our subsidiaries take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units, ETP’s Common Units or Regency’s Common Units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by us or our subsidiaries, and therefore indirectly by us, as a Unitholder and as the owner of the general partner of interests in ETP and Regency, reducing the cash available for distribution to our Unitholders. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our Unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, Unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from the taxation of their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our Common Units could be more or less than expected. If Unitholders sell their Common Units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those Common Units. Because distributions in excess of the Unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the Unitholder’s tax basis in their Common Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to the Unitholder if they sell such units at a price greater than their adjusted tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a Unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a Unitholder sells units, the Unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning Common Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in Common Units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises tax issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to Unitholders who are organizations exempt from federal income tax, may be taxable to 59 Table of Contents them as “unrelated business taxable income.” Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, generally at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal and state income tax returns and generally pay United States federal and state income tax on their share of our taxable income and on gains realized on the sale of our units. We treat each purchaser of Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could result in a Unitholder owing more tax and may adversely affect the value of the Common Units. The IRS may challenge the manner in which we calculate our Unitholder’s basis adjustment under Section 743(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. If so, because neither we nor a Unitholder can identify the units to which this issue relates once the initial holder has traded them, the IRS may assert adjustments to all Unitholders selling units within the period under audit as if all Unitholders owned such units. Any position we take that is inconsistent with applicable Treasury Regulations may have to be disclosed on our federal income tax return. This disclosure increases the likelihood that the IRS will challenge our positions and propose adjustments to some or all of our Unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to this position or other positions we may take could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our Unitholders. It also could affect the gain from a Unitholder’s sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our Unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. Moreover, because one of our subsidiaries that is organized as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes owns units in ETP, a successful IRS challenge could result in this subsidiary having a greater tax liability than we anticipate and, therefore, reduce the cash available for distribution to our partnership and, in turn, to our Unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A Unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the Unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a Unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the Unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the Unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the Unitholder and any cash distributions received by the Unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. 60 Table of Contents ETP and Regency have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and the public Unitholders of ETP and Regency. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of ETP’s or Regency’s Common Units and our Common Units. When we, ETP or Regency issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we, ETP or Regency determine the fair market value of the assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of ETP’s and Regency’s Unitholders and us. Although ETP and Regency may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of its assets, ETP and Regency make many of the fair market value estimates of their assets themselves using a methodology based on the market value of their Common Units as a means to measure the fair market value of their assets. ETP’s or Regency’s methodology may be viewed as understating the value of ETP’s or Regency’s assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain ETP or Regency Unitholders and us, which may be unfavorable to such ETP or Regency Unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our Common Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to ETP’s or Regency’s tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to ETP’s or Regency’s intangible assets. The IRS may challenge ETP’s or Regency’s valuation methods, or our, ETP’s or Regency’s allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to ETP’s or Regency’s tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and certain of ETP’s or Regency’s Unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our Unitholders, the ETP Unitholders or the Regency Unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of Common Units by our Unitholders, ETP’s Unitholders or Regency’s Unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or those of ETP or Regency or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our, ETP’s or Regency’s Unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit during the applicable twelve-month period will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all Unitholders which would require us to file two federal partnership tax returns for one fiscal year, and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a Unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such Unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes on the technical termination date, and would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine in a timely manner that a termination occurred. In November 2010, Enterprise GP Holdings L.P., which, at the time, held non-controlling interest in us and our General Partner, merged into Enterprise Products Partners L.P. For federal income tax purposes, this merger is treated as a change of approximately 18% of the ownership interests in ETE. The completion of the Enterprise merger transaction did not cause a technical termination of the partnership in 2010, but it did increase the likelihood that a technical termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes may occur during the twelve-month period following the consummation of the transaction. 61 Table of Contents Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our Common Units. In addition to federal income taxes, the Unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we, ETP or Regency conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We currently own property or conduct business in more than 40 states. Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal or corporate income tax. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions. Further, Unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Unitholder to file all federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 62 Table of Contents 