Item 1A Risk Factors 37 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 70 Item 2 Properties 71 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 71 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 71 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 72 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 74 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 75 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 95 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 96 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 129 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 129 Item 9B Other Information 132 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 133 Item 11 Executive Compensation 133 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 133 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 133 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 133 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules 134 Signatures 135 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations about our business and industry and include statements regarding our strategies, products and product capabilities. In some cases, these statements may be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will”, “should,” “expects,” “could,” “intends,” “might,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “projects,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. Examples of such statements include our expectations for future operating and financial trends and results. Our forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause or contribute to such differences include, among others, those discussed in this report in Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events after the date of this report. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We have applied for trademark registration of, and claim trademark rights in, “Magellan” and “Hansen Medical Magellan.” We have obtained trademark registration for, and claim trademark rights in “Artisan Extend,” “Hansen Medical,” “Hansen Medical (with Heart Design),” “Heart Design (Logo),” “Sensei,” “Artisan,” “Instinctive Motion,” “Fine Force Technology” and “IntelliSense.” This report also includes other trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies. Overview We develop, manufacture and sell a new generation of medical robotics designed for accurate positioning, manipulation and stable control of catheters and catheter-based technologies. While earlier generations of medical robotics were designed primarily for manipulating rigid surgical instruments, our technology is designed to enable and improve medical procedures that are reliant upon flexible tools like guide wires, catheters, sheaths, balloons and stents. Over the past thirty years, one of the most significant medical trends has been the development of less traumatic or minimally invasive methods of diagnosing and treating disease. These less traumatic methods have largely fallen into two groups: • Minimally invasive surgery, which reduces the size of incisions in body walls, generally results in fewer complications, shorter hospitalization and recovery times and substantially reduced pain and suffering. These procedures generally use rigid instruments. • Interventional procedures, which minimize trauma by using blood vessels and other tubular anatomic structures such as the nose, mouth, urethra, rectum and cervix as “highways” to guide flexible instruments such as catheters to the area of treatment. Minimally invasive surgery reduces the trauma of open surgery, and interventional procedures cause even less trauma and can reach many areas of the body that rigid-instrument robotic surgery cannot. Each year, catheter-based technologies are used for millions of interventional diagnostic and therapeutic medical procedures worldwide. However, manually-controlled hand-held catheter delivery devices, even in the hands of the most skilled specialists, have inherent instrument control limitations. In traditional interventional procedures, devices are manually manipulated by physicians, who twist and push the external ends of the instrument in an iterative process that attempts to thread the internal end of the instrument through tubular anatomic structures to a specific treatment site. Manual control of the working tip of the catheter becomes increasingly difficult as more turns are required to navigate the instrument to the treatment site. These control problems are significant in constrained tubular spaces such as blood vessels and become even more difficult in unconstrained spaces such as the atria and ventricles of the heart and large diameter blood vessels such as the aorta and tortuous vessels commonly seen 3 Table of Contents in patients with vascular disease. In addition, while sophisticated imaging, mapping and location-sensing systems have provided visualization for interventional procedures and allowed physicians to treat more complex conditions using flexible instruments, the substantial lack of integration of these information systems requires the physician to mentally integrate and process large quantities of information from different sources in real time during an interventional procedure. These systems display data differently, requiring physicians to continuously reorient themselves to the different formats and displays as they shift their focus from one data source to the next while at the same time manually controlling an inherently difficult-to-control catheter. Electrophysiology Electrophysiology, or EP, is the study of electrical impulses through the heart. EP is focused primarily on diagnosing and treating cardiac arrhythmias, which are conditions in which electrical impulses within the heart vary from the normal rate or rhythm of a heartbeat. Such conditions may be associated with significant risks to patients. Our Sensei® Robotic Catheter System, or Sensei system, is designed to allow physicians to instinctively navigate flexible catheters with solid stability and control in interventional procedures within the atrial heart chambers. Instinctive navigation refers to the ability of our Sensei system to enable physicians to direct the movements of a robotic catheter like our currently marketed Artisan® Control Catheter and Artisan Extend® Control Catheter, or Artisan catheters. We believe our Sensei system and its corresponding disposable catheters enable physicians to perform procedures that historically have been difficult or time consuming to accomplish routinely with manually-controlled, hand-held catheters and catheter-based technologies, or that we believe could be accomplished only by the most skilled physicians. We believe that our Sensei system has the potential to benefit patients, physicians, hospitals and third-party payors by improving outcomes and permitting complex procedures to be performed interventionally. Our products are currently labeled and marketed in the United States for manipulation, positioning and control of certain mapping catheters in the atria of the heart connected with these procedures, and in the European Union and certain other countries for manipulation, positioning and control of diagnostic and therapeutic catheters within the atria of the heart. When the FDA cleared our technology for promotion in the U.S., the FDA required that we label our products in the United States with language spelling out that the safety and effectiveness of our products for use with cardiac ablation catheters, in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, have not been established. We do not promote any off-label use of our Sensei system, including the use for ablation procedures for treating atrial fibrillation. Physicians may, however, choose to use our Sensei system in procedures involving the mapping and ablation of cardiac tissue to treat atrial fibrillation. It is our understanding that all or nearly all of the procedures performed using our technology have involved a combination of mapping and ablation. Atrial fibrillation, which is the most common form of arrhythmia, results from abnormal electrical impulses that cause a rapid, irregular heartbeat within the upper chambers of the heart, leading to ineffective pumping of the blood through the heart, as well as complications that include a significantly increased risk of stroke. We have received approval of an Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, application to investigate the use of our Sensei system and Artisan Control Catheter in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in a clinical study designed to support a submission to the FDA to obtain clearance or approval for the expansion of our current labeling in the United States beyond mapping. The study planned to involve approximately 300 patients and involves the ablative treatment of atrial fibrillation. The study includes a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. We enrolled our first patient in May 2010 and approximately 50 patients were enrolled as of January 2013. A proposed modification to the study protocol was submitted to FDA for review in April 2013, to reduce the required sample size. The modified study, which plans to enroll a minimum of 125 additional subjects, was approved by the FDA in August 2013 and approximately three-fourths of the additional subjects have been enrolled to date. If successful, we intend to use the data from this study to support a submission to the FDA to obtain clearance or approval for use in atrial fibrillation procedures. 4 Table of Contents Peripheral Vascular An additional and more recent focus of our robotic catheter technology has been the endovascular treatment of vascular disease, an area that we expect to be a key growth driver for the business. Endovascular procedures are catheter-based procedures done in the arterial and venous vasculatures and include interventions involving the abdominal and thoracic aortic grafting as well as access, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, or PTA, atherectomy and stenting of branches of the aorta and arterial system including the coronary and carotid arteries and the iliac, femoral, popliteal, infra popliteal renal and mesenteric vessels. To address this market, we have developed our MagellanTM Robotic System and associated Magellan Robotic Catheters which is based on our Sensei system and preserves the open architecture featured in the Sensei system to allow for the subsequent use of some 6 French gauge, or 6Fr therapeutic devices on the market today. The Magellan Robotic System with the Magellan Robotic Catheter, or “Vascular System”, cannulates peripheral vessels with a proprietary technology that delivers simultaneous and independent distal tip control of a catheter and a sheath as well as robotic manipulation of standard guide wires, from a centralized, remote workstation. This technology is designed to provide a robotically stabilized conduit for the manual placement and delivery of other companies’ therapeutic devices. Additionally, the Magellan Robotic System is designed to allow for sufficient extension inside the body to access hard to reach, distal peripheral anatomy. We believe this platform and its clinical capability has the potential to open new markets for Hansen by providing vascular surgeons, interventional cardiologists, and interventional radiologists with accurate control of the catheter tip to enable vessel navigation, helping them to perform more complex catheter based procedures in a systematic way. In July 2011, we received CE Mark for our Magellan Robotic System and in October 2011 received a CE Mark for the Magellan Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan Robotic System. We received FDA clearance for the marketing of our Magellan Robotic System including the catheter and accessories in June 2012 and we received FDA clearance for the marketing of our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter in February 2014. In November 2014, we received a CE Mark for the marketing of our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter. We also believe that robotic control of flexible instruments has potential application to a broad range of interventional procedures. We have investigated expanding the uses for our technology beyond EP procedures to additional interventional applications in peripheral vascular and cardiovascular diseases. Consistent with this strategy, we have investigated the application of robotic delivery techniques to endovascular interventions such as angioplasty and stenting, as well as structural heart applications such as percutaneous aortic valve replacement and mitral valve repair. For the most part, catheters and catheter-based technologies have used blood vessels and other tubular anatomic structures as “highways” to constrain and guide their movement to specific parts of the body. However, we believe that physicians have limited ability to accurately control the distal working tips of these manually-controlled, hand-held instruments, which may hinder the physician’s ability to perform procedures that require precise navigation and stability of catheters in tortuous vessels. These issues are magnified in larger open spaces such as the atria and ventricles of the heart and large diameter blood vessels of the body such as the aorta where the navigation of the tip of the catheter is no longer aided by vessel walls. We believe our technology has additional applications outside of the fields of EP, and peripheral vascular intervention. We plan to investigate the advancement of our technology into these markets so that the benefits of flexible robotics and instinctive control can be experienced by a larger group of physicians and patients. The Hansen Medical Solution Our systems principally consist of two modules: a physician control console and a patient-side module that can be easily connected to most procedure tables and do not require any specialty room designs. Physicians sit at the control console outside the radiation field and use their hands to instinctively control the motion of and navigate our disposable catheters, which are attached to the patient-side module. Our catheters are designed to accurately deliver third-party catheters and catheter-based technologies to specific sites in a broad range of procedures. 5 Table of Contents We believe our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System, combined with our disposable catheters, overcome the limitations of hand-held navigation catheters. We designed our systems to have the following attributes: • Instinctive control. Our systems utilize computer-controlled robotics to directly translate the motions of the physician’s hands from our control console into corresponding accurate manipulations of the catheters and catheter-based technologies inside the body. We believe the instinctive robotic control of the catheters may be easier to use than manual catheter approaches and therefore has the potential to reduce procedure times, improve efficacy and enable newer or additional procedures to be performed through catheter navigation. In addition, we believe this instinctive control enables physicians to be trained in the use of our system in a relatively short period of time which can increase the number of physicians who are capable of performing these catheter-based procedures. • Variable force at the catheter tip. To effectively perform a broad range of catheter-based procedures, physicians must have the ability to apply variable force at the working tip of the catheters and other catheter-based technologies. We designed our disposable electrophysiology catheter products to provide variable support while maintaining the flexibility required to navigate the catheter. In addition, we have developed our proprietary IntelliSense® force-sensing technology to measure and display the amount of force being applied by a catheter throughout the procedure. • Stability. We believe our systems provide the accuracy and control required for diagnosing or treating a number of conditions in which the stable and repeated placement of a catheter is necessary for an effective outcome, such as against a specific location on the inner wall of a beating heart and in the peripheral vasculature. Our Magellan Robotic System also allows for independent, individual robotic control of the distal tips of both the outer sheath and the inner leader catheter, as well as robotic manipulation of standard guide wires. • Compatibility with third-party devices and imaging and navigation systems. Our catheters, based on an open architecture system, do not require physicians to use a set of proprietary therapeutic catheters made by a specific manufacturer. Although we have received clearance in the U.S. for use of our Sensei system with only two specified mapping catheters, our Artisan catheter incorporates a center lumen that is designed to be compatible with some currently approved third-party catheters. Our Sensei system is compatible with the leading imaging and navigation systems. This enables us to potentially achieve clearance for a broader range of devices for use with our Sensei system than we have achieved thus far. Similarly, the Magellan Robotic Catheter is compatible with imaging, navigation and therapeutic third-party devices; it preserves the open architecture featured in the Sensei system to allow for the subsequent use of some 6Fr therapeutic devices on the market today. • Adaptability. Our systems primarily consist of two modules: a physician control console and a patient-side module that can be connected to most procedure tables and do not require any specialty room designs. In addition, the system includes a portable electronics rack. These modules can be wheeled between procedure rooms and reinstalled by a Hansen service technician, and do not require a dedicated space, any special facility modification or magnetic shielding to prevent interference for their use. We believe that our robotic solution may offer the potential for substantial benefits to patients, physicians, hospitals and third-party payors including: • improving control, consistency and stability in catheter-based procedures; • permitting access to complex existing cases and enabling broad use of catheter-based treatments for diseases where catheters are rarely used today, if at all; • enabling more physicians to perform complex interventional procedures through ease of use and reduced training time; • reducing X-ray radiation exposure by allowing the primary physician to conduct procedures away from the radiation field in an adjacent room which greatly reduces their radiation exposure; and 6 Table of Contents • increasing hospital efficiency by allowing for additional cases to be performed in one day as a result of reduced physician fatigue and reduced risk of physician back and neck problems from heavy lead protective clothing. Our robotic solutions allow physicians to sit comfortably at our control console during a procedure instead of standing at table-side. Since the 2007 commercial launch of our Sensei system, clinical studies have been performed outside the United States comparing robotic versus manual procedures and describe differences in efficacy and treatment outcomes, procedure times, power use and power settings, complication rates, and fluoroscopy time (exposure to radiation). A growing body of evidence from these clinical studies, in which over 2,700 atrial fibrillation patients have been treated, demonstrates: • Technical success in delivering therapeutic modality and • Similar or lower complication rate as compared to manual cases. Presently, there are two active studies to assess and to further describe the use of flexible robotic navigation for atrial arrhythmia. One study is occurring outside the United States and one study is occurring in the United States under an FDA approved IDE. These studies are being conducted prospectively as well as retrospectively; multi center as well as multi operator. The studies are being performed to report on the previously reported complication rates of major cardiac events such as tamponade and pericardial effusion and esophageal lesions as well as long term follow up data to assess the durability of the procedure using the Sensei system and Artisan catheter. As additional studies conclude and a greater body of cases are performed, we believe there will be greater empirical data for the acceptance and adoption of our products and technology. Our Products Sensei system The Sensei system describes our Sensei X and Sensei X2 generations of systems and is principally comprised of two modules: a physician control console and a patient-side module that can be connected to most procedure tables. The control console can be located inside the Electro-Physiology Laboratory, or EP lab, and close to the patient or outside the EP lab in a separate location shielded from radiation. The control console features an instinctive motion controller, which robotically controls the patient-side module to move the catheter within the patient anatomy. Our robotics technology uses sophisticated software and system control algorithms to command the motion of our catheters. Having navigated the catheter to the targeted area, the physician uses instinctive controls to place the working tip of the control catheters to the desired location. Our patient-side module is a robotic manipulator actuated by motors that control pull-wires in our catheters. The manipulator is mounted on an articulating, or pivoting, arm that is in turn mounted to the procedure table in the EP lab or other treatment room. The manipulator may be directed over the patient during a procedure and thus positioned optimally for that procedure. We received CE Mark approval for our Sensei system in the fourth quarter of 2006 and made our first commercial shipments to the European Union in the first quarter of 2007. In May 2007, we received CE Mark approval for our Artisan Control Catheter and also received FDA, clearance to market and promote our Sensei system and Artisan Control Catheter in the United States for manipulation, positioning and control of certain mapping catheters during EP, procedures. To better define the scope of our initial mapping clearance, the FDA also required that we label these products for the United States with language stating that their safety and effectiveness for use with ablation catheters have not been established in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation. Our Sensei system and our Artisan catheter have been used in the United States for ablation procedures in an off-label manner. To assist physicians in applying the appropriate force with the catheter tip, we have developed our proprietary IntelliSense Fine Force TechnologyTM to measure and display the amount of force in grams transmitted along the shaft of the catheter as a result of catheter tissue contact. We obtained premarket 7 Table of Contents notification, or 510(k) clearance, from the FDA for this feature in 2008. In the third quarter of 2009, we introduced Sensei X, our next generation Sensei system. We received FDA clearance for the latest-generation system, the Sensei X2, in August 2014 and a CE mark in October 2014. Our end customers for these systems range from large university medical centers to community hospitals and many systems were shipped to distributors outside the United States. Artisan catheter Our disposable Artisan catheter and guide catheter assembly consists of a telescoping set of control catheters that are integrated to provide the desired motion of the tip of a diagnostic or therapeutic catheter that is inserted through the center lumen of the Artisan catheter. In this manner, the Artisan assembly is designed to accurately control the movement of a third-party catheter chosen by the physician. As a result, physicians are not limited to using particular proprietary catheters. In addition, the center lumen of the Artisan catheter is designed to allow physicians outside the United States to adapt and expand the procedures they can perform as other manufacturers invent new therapeutic or diagnostic catheters. Each Artisan catheter is designed to be used only once and then discarded. Our disposable Artisan catheter and guide are designed to move together or independently, and can move with multiple degrees of freedom when attached to the robotically-controlled motors of our Sensei system. In addition, our Artisan catheter has a programmable chip that prevents use of an Artisan catheter that has been previously used and that restricts other control catheters from being plugged into our Sensei system patient-side module. In May 2007, we received CE Mark approval for our Artisan Control Catheter and also received FDA clearance for the marketing of our Artisan catheter for manipulation, positioning and control of certain mapping catheters during EP procedures. In fall of 2009, we introduced our Artisan eXtend catheter, which provides improved flexibility and ease of use and included a new flush assembly. However, some of the catheters experienced a leak in the new flush assembly. Although no patient is known or suspected to have experienced any consequences associated with the leak in the new flush assembly, we voluntarily recalled all of the catheters that included the new flush assembly and reported the events to the FDA in accordance with applicable regulations. A newly-designed Artisan Extend Control Catheter was cleared by the FDA and introduced into the market in 2012. CoHesionTM 3D Visualization Module Our CoHesion 3D Visualization Module, or CoHesion Module, is a software interface between our Sensei system and the St. Jude Medical EnSiteTM System for EP procedures. It is designed to provide physicians with 3D visualization to augment their ability to move a catheter throughout the atria, as well as increase control over placement of the catheter in specific locations. The CoHesion Module expands the utility of the EnSite and Sensei systems to provide physicians with a comprehensive and easy-to-use remote navigation and mapping system for EP procedures. Key features of the CoHesion Module include: • importation of EnSite 3D geometry into the Sensei system’s main navigation window; • localization of the percutaneous catheter tip within the EnSite 3D geometry; and • instinctive navigation of the localized catheter tip by the catheter. Published clinical studies have shown that the use of the CoHesion Module results in the reduction of radiation exposure to the patient compared to conventional procedures. The CoHesion Module became commercially available in the European Union in the first quarter of 2008 and we obtained FDA clearance for the CoHesion Module in the United States at the end of the second quarter of 2008. The EnSite system is a computer-based technology marketed worldwide that facilitates EP procedures by creating real-time 3D graphical displays or maps of cardiac structures and arrhythmias. These maps are designed to provide the visual guidance necessary to navigate catheters used during EP procedures. Two-dimensional technologies such as fluoroscopy or ultrasound can also be used to assist physicians with guiding catheters inside 8 Table of Contents the heart, but provide limited information regarding the three-dimensional space inside the heart. Combining the Sensei and EnSite technologies provides physicians with 3D visualization that augments their ability to confidently move a catheter throughout the heart, as well as increase control over placement of the catheter in specific locations. The EnSite System is used by EP clinicians during EP procedures to create 3D models of their patients’ cardiac anatomy and then to visualize catheters used in those procedures as they are navigated to critical anatomical targets. The system collects and organizes activation and voltage data from the inner surface of the heart, which allows physicians to visualize arrhythmias on the 3D model and more easily determine a treatment strategy. Localization of our Artisan catheter within the EnSite System’s 3D map gives physicians the ability to move the catheter deliberately and accurately while seeing specifically, in three dimensions, the location of the catheter inside the heart. We believe this integrated functionality enables clinicians of varying skill levels to effectively treat complex cardiac arrhythmias. Magellan Robotic System Our Magellan Robotic System is similarly comprised of two modules: a physician control console and a patient-side robotic arm that can be connected to most procedure tables. The control console can be located inside the lab and close to the patient or outside in a separate location shielded from radiation. The control console features an instinctive motion controller, which robotically controls the patient-side module to accurately move the catheter within the patient anatomy. Our robotics technology uses sophisticated software and system control algorithms to command the motion of our catheters. The Magellan Robotic System controls the proprietary Magellan Robotic Catheter, which is a telescoping, robotically steerable catheter designed to facilitate remote catheter navigation and vessel cannulation, and to provide a robotically stabilized sheath for manual delivery of therapeutic devices. Our patient-side module is a robotic manipulator actuated by motors that can control the remote insertion, rotation, and bend of the Magellan Robotic Catheter, as well as the remote insertion and rotation of a standard-sized guide wire. The manipulator is mounted on an articulating, or pivoting, arm that is in turn mounted to the procedure table in the interventional lab or hybrid operating room. The manipulator may be adjusted for optimal positioning over the patient. In July 2011, we received a CE Mark for our Magellan Robotic System and in October 2011 received a CE Mark for the Magellan Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan Robotic System. We received FDA clearance for the marketing of our Magellan Robotic System including the catheter and accessories in June 2012. We recognized revenue on our first Magellan Robotic System in the first quarter of 2012. The Magellan Robotic System employs the use of two types of catheters, the Magellan 9Fr and the Magellan 6Fr Catheters. Each catheter allows for features such as distal tip shaping of the catheter, navigation that does not require vessel wall touches and strong catheter stability when locked in place in preparation for therapy delivery. The Magellan 9Fr catheter received FDA clearance in 2012 and a CE mark in 2011. The Magellan 6Fr Catheter received FDA clearance and a CE mark in 2014. In 2014, we also launched the Magellan Transport System or MTS which allows for the Magellan robotic arm to be easily deployed or removed from a patient table. The ability to remove the arm frees up potential table space for non-robotic procedures and allows for Magellan to be easily transported out of the room. Our Strategy Our goal is to establish our technology as the leading robotic platform for complex interventional catheter-based procedures for cardiovascular and peripheral vascular diseases. We believe our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System will accomplish this objective by potentially improving outcomes, reducing physician fatigue which may allow for additional cases to be performed in one day, reducing radiation exposure for operating physicians and reducing overall procedure costs and hospital expenditures. We also believe that we 9 Table of Contents will be able to increase the number of procedures treated with catheter-based approaches and enable more doctors to perform such procedures. We market our products in the United States through a direct sales force of regional sales employees, supported by clinical sales representatives who provide training, clinical support and other services to our customers. Outside the United States, primarily in the European Union, we use a combination of a direct sales force and distributors to market, sell and support our products. Elements of our strategy include: • Focus commercial, clinical, and engineering activities to drive adoption and utilization of the Magellan platform in vascular applications and the Sensei technology in electrophysiology. We have focused our efforts on projects with the highest level of clinical value and which we believe will have attractive returns on investment. We have also oriented our investments in marketing and clinical resources to better educate the physician community as to the benefits of our technology. We believe that through both simultaneous broad and focused physician interaction, publications of our clinical experiences, dissemination of those experiences, and engagement of current and new users, we can positively affect system utilization. We also believe that committing to utilization and physician interaction we will also drive improvements in adoption of the technology. • Target key institutions and thought leaders to encourage adoption of our systems. We are currently focusing our marketing efforts on the academic and community hospitals where the majority of procedures are performed. We believe these efforts will benefit those hospitals which adopt our technology by reinforcing their reputations as centers of excellence in their local markets in the specialties that benefit from procedures performed with our systems. In late 2013, we began to place increased commercial emphasis on communicating the clinical and economic value of our Magellan Robotic System to physicians and administrators in the U.S. community hospital setting. • Continue ongoing research and development efforts to broaden our technology platform and extend our leadership. We intend to enhance and maintain our technology leadership with focused research and development efforts. Currently, we sell systems for EP procedures and for the treatment of vascular diseases. We believe that these platforms and their clinical capability could provide us access to significant markets. We believe that a robotic system with flexibility, in terms of tools and disposables, has the potential to allow us to broadly address market needs for both complex interventions as well as simpler cases. • Increase use of our systems. Following the initial placement within a given hospital, we endeavor to expand the number of physicians who use our systems. Our goal is to increase usage per system, leading to higher volume sales of our disposable catheters and sales of additional systems at each hospital. Through December 31, 2014, we estimate approximately 16,366 procedures have been performed using our systems. • Expand potential applications for our systems. We have commenced post-marketing studies to provide evidence for the benefits which we believe our technology brings to the clinician, which should help to drive adoption of our technology. Studies are currently under way in Europe comparing the safety, usability and success of the treatment of atrial fibrillation with our Sensei system to manual techniques. In addition, we have received FDA approval to investigate the use of our Artisan Control Catheter in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in an IDE clinical study designed to support a submission to the FDA to obtain clearance or approval for the expansion of our current labeling in the U.S. beyond mapping. The study was planned to involve approximately 300 patients and involves the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We enrolled our first patient in May 2010 and approximately 50 patients were enrolled as of January 2013. A proposed modification to the study protocol was submitted to FDA for review in January 2013, to reduce the required sample size. The modified study, which plans to enroll a minimum of 125 additional subjects, was approved by the FDA in August 2013 and approximately three-fourths of the targeted number of additional subjects have been enrolled to date. The study includes a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. 10 Table of Contents • Leverage the open architecture of our platforms. We believe that our broad compatibility with key imaging and visualization technologies will facilitate adoption of our systems in the marketplace. We also believe that adoption of both of our systems will be enhanced because physicians will be able to use existing approved catheters in the lumen of our robotic catheters. We plan to collaborate with manufacturers of disposable interventional products and imaging equipment to optimize compatibility with future enhancements of our systems. Further, our open architecture allows us to benefit from third-party development efforts that advance current catheter and imaging technologies. For example, we are encouraged with the recent movement within imaging technology companies to create a convergence of surgical operating rooms and interventional suites into hybrid interventional operating labs. We believe this convergence of imaging for intervention and operative intervention is consistent with our strategy to create increased efficacy, safety and efficiency through the pairing of visualization and imaging technology with our flexible robotics. Our Sensei system and Artisan catheter were cleared by the FDA for manipulation and control of certain mapping catheters in EP procedures. This robotic catheter system is compatible with fluoroscopy, ultrasound, 3D surface map and patient electrocardiogram data. In the United States, the Sensei system is not approved for use in guiding ablation procedures; this use remains investigational. The U.S. product labeling therefore provides that the safety and effectiveness of the Sensei system and Artisan catheter for use with cardiac ablation catheters in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation, have not been established. Our future business prospects, however, will depend on the use of our Sensei system in the treatment of atrial fibrillation and other cardiovascular procedures. Depending upon regulatory requirements and our understanding of the needs of the physician community, we plan to seek future clearances or approvals for labeling that includes certain ablation procedures. Without such clearance or approval, each of these uses is considered an off-label use of our Sensei system, and we are prohibited from labeling or promoting our Sensei system, or training physicians, for such off-label use. Due to these legal constraints, our sales and marketing efforts focus on the general technical attributes and benefits of our Sensei system and its use to map the atrial anatomy. As a result of promotional limits based on our labeling and the competitive nature of the market, some hospitals or physicians may not adopt our Sensei system or use our products unless and until we are able to broaden the scope of FDA clearance for our products. In addition, if the FDA determines that we have engaged in off-label promotion, we could be subject to significant liability. See Item 1A — Risk Factors — “We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting off-label use of our products in violation of federal, state and countries regulations in the United States or elsewhere” and “If we fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.” Clinical Focus Electrophysiology Electrophysiology, or EP, is the study of electrical impulses through the heart. EP is focused primarily on diagnosing and treating cardiac arrhythmias, which are conditions in which electrical impulses within the heart vary from the normal rate or rhythm of a heartbeat. Such conditions may be associated with significant risks to patients. Drug therapies have traditionally been used as initial treatments but they often fail to adequately control the arrhythmia and may have significant side effects. As a result, a significant unmet medical need for long-term solutions persists. Severe heart rhythm disturbances were historically treated by highly invasive open chest heart surgery and are therefore typically only performed in conjunction with other procedures unrelated to the arrhythmia such as coronary artery bypass surgery or valve replacement and, as such, the total procedure can be very expensive. While generally very effective, these procedures are extremely traumatic for the patient, and usually require long hospital stays followed by a significant period of convalescence. Minimally invasive surgical procedures for the treatment of severe heart rhythm disturbances, including some which are robotically controlled, were devised to add visualization and instrument control using an endoscope in order to reduce the trauma for the patient. While these minimally invasive surgical techniques have been used for a number of anti-arrhythmic procedures, we believe the results have been mixed and the trauma to the patient and procedure cost remain high. 11 Table of Contents Interventional EP further advanced these surgical procedures in EP labs through visualization provided by real-time X-ray imaging, often enhanced by electro-anatomic mapping and intracardiac ultrasound. These advances enable physicians to insert and navigate catheters into the vasculature, then into the open chambers of the heart to deliver diagnostic and therapeutic technologies. In EP mapping and ablation procedures, physicians have traditionally used specialized hand-held catheters. These catheters are manually navigated using a system of mechanical control cables to first map the electrical signals within the patient’s heart and then to ablate the heart tissue to eliminate arrhythmias. Generally, ablation is accomplished by applying radiofrequency energy or electrical energy, or freezing the diseased tissue giving rise to the arrhythmia, usually through a catheter which creates a small scar that is incapable of generating or conducting heart arrhythmias. EP procedures have proven highly effective at treating arrhythmias at sites accessible through the vasculature. Control of the hand-held devices used in these EP procedures requires significant skill, because navigation in the blood vessels and the chambers of the heart can be difficult. The path that the interventional device must follow to arrive at the treatment site can be complex and tortuous and can include crossing the septum of the heart. Existing hand-held devices are limited in their ability to accurately navigate the tip of the mapping and ablation catheter to the treatment site on the heart wall, to keep the catheter in the targeted place and maintain adequate tissue contact within a beating heart to effect treatment and perform complex ablations within the left atrium of the heart. Physicians using manually-controlled, hand-held devices often utilize a range of different catheters and sheaths in an attempt to find the right device or combination of devices for the procedure being performed. Our Sensei system has been designed to address the challenges associated with the use of current hand-held devices in performing many EP procedures. We believe the instinctive robotic control of our Sensei system may provide greater accuracy, tip stability and control, reduce the variability of procedure times and improve the efficacy of EP procedures, including: • General mapping and ablation. A physician typically performs a diagnostic procedure in which the electrical signal patterns of the heart wall are mapped to identify the heart tissue generating the aberrant electrical signals. Mapping allows the physician to measure the timing and strength of the electrical activity. Following the mapping procedure, the physician may then use an ablation catheter to disable the aberrant electrical signal or signal path, restoring the heart to its normal rhythm. In cases where an ablation is anticipated, physicians generally choose an ablation catheter and perform both the mapping and ablation with the same catheter. • Atrial fibrillation. The most common arrhythmia is atrial fibrillation, which is characterized by rapid, disorganized contractions of the heart’s upper chambers, the atria. Atrial fibrillation leads to ineffective pumping of the blood through the heart and significantly increases the risk of stroke. According to GlobalData in 2014, over 3.3 million people in the United States currently suffer from atrial fibrillation. We believe that the number of atrial fibrillation procedures has the potential to grow if quicker, effective and easier to accomplish interventional treatments are available. We believe that due primarily to the difficulties of accurately controlling the manual catheter, the efficacy of ablation to treat atrial fibrillation is reported to be only approximately 50% to 75% according to GlobalData studies in 2014, and the procedure has significant risks, including stroke. As a result, atrial fibrillation ablations are generally only performed by very experienced physicians. We believe that many of the electrophysiologists in the United States do not regularly perform these catheter-based procedures because of their complexity and time-consuming nature and evolving clinical data. These procedures often last three to seven hours because of their complexity. The length of these procedures exposes the physician and staff to extensive radiation, requiring them to wear heavy lead vests for many hours at a time. As noted above, our Sensei system has not been cleared in the United States for use with ablation catheters or for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We are required by the FDA to label our products with language specifying that the safety and effectiveness of our products for use with cardiac ablation catheters, in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, has not been established. 12 Table of Contents The following table summarizes arrhythmias we believe could benefit from use of our Sensei system. All data regarding prevalence is based on forecasts by GlobalData published in 2014: Form of Arrhythmia Definition 2013 U.S. Prevalence Location and Success Rate of Ablation Therapy Atrial Fibrillation (AF) Rapid, disorganized beating of the upper chambers or atria of the heart. The ventricle or lower chamber of the heart cannot respond to the increased pace, so blood pools in the atria leading to a three to five times increased risk of stroke. Heart failure will eventually occur if AF is left untreated. This arrhythmia may occur intermittently, or it may be permanent. 3.3 million In this arrhythmia, the ablation therapy is performed primarily in the left atrium. Since this arrhythmia can arise from multiple electrical sites, the goal is to electrically isolate those sites from the rest of the left atrium, thereby forcing the heart’s normal conduction pathway to take over. Success rates are approximately 50% to 75%. Atrial Flutter Rapid, but organized and predictable pattern of beating of the atria. As with AF, the ventricles cannot respond to all of the atrial beats, so blood pools in the atria, increasing the risk of stroke. 48,700 Unlike AF, atrial flutter arises from a single electrical wave that circulates rapidly throughout the right side of the heart. Ablation is used to interrupt this circuit and is successful in approximately 80% of cases. Ventricular Tachycardia (VT) Ventricular tachycardia arises from the lower chambers of the heart. It is characterized by heart rates over 100 beats per minute, but heart rates often approach 200 beats per minute. At this rate, very little blood is pumped out of the heart to the brain and other organs. Extremely fast VT can be fatal. uncertain due tooverlap withventricular fibrillation Lesions are placed in either the left or right ventricle depending on where the arrhythmia arises. Treatment success rate is approximately 50% to 75% in patients with structural heart disease. Wolff-Parkinson-White An arrhythmia caused by an abnormal bridge of tissue that connects the atria and ventricles of the heart. This accessory pathway allows electrical signals to go back and forth between the atria and the ventricles without passing through the Atrioventricular, or AV, node. If the signal travels back and forth, very fast heart rates and life threatening arrhythmias can develop. approximately 0.3% ofthe general population Lesions for this arrhythmia are placed in the right side of the heart. Ablation is the accepted form of curative therapy for symptomatic patients with success rates from approximately 88% to 99%. In 2014, it was projected by GlobalData that over 9.9 million people will have atrial fibrillation and 368,000 will have atrial flutter in the U.S., Europe and Japan by 2020. 13 Table of Contents Vascular Market Peripheral vascular disease presents a significant market opportunity for us. Patients with peripheral vascular disease can suffer from decreased blood flow which can lead to disability and amputation, stroke or blood clots, and death. The rates of diabetes, hypertension, atherosclerosis, and obesity are also on the rise worldwide and are contributors to the growth rate of vascular disease in an aging population. Endovascular procedures are catheter-based procedures done in the arterial and venous vasculatures and include interventions involving the abdominal and thoracic aortic grafting as well as access PTA, atherectomy and stenting of branches of the aorta and arterial system including the carotid arteries and the iliac, femoral, popliteal, renal and mesenteric vessels. In 2013, Millennium Research Group forecasted that approximately 1.1 million of these procedures would be performed in the United States alone in 2013. We believe that our technology has the potential to improve efficacy, safety and efficiency for a number of procedures that can generally be grouped into the category of endovascular therapies. From simple, straightforward procedures, to complex, challenging endovascular procedures, we believe robotic catheter control has the potential to (1) allow endovascular physicians to perform procedures less invasively, (2) reduce radiation exposure to physician and reduce procedural fatigue, and (3) reduce the likelihood of prolonged procedure times. Complex vascular procedures, which we estimate range from 10% to 20% of endovascular interventions, have limited technical success, longer procedure times and fluoroscopy use, and expose the patient to significantly increased risks of adverse events and extended hospitalizations. We believe that the individual robotic control of the distal tips of both the outer sheath and the inner leader catheter, as well as robotic manipulation of standard guide wires can enable navigation to the anatomical area of interest inside an artery and can facilitate placement of a stent, graft or other therapeutic or implantable device. In particularly diseased or tortuous arteries, facilitation of steering of the catheter may assist in avoiding contact with atheromatous (and calcification) disease present in the vessel wall, may facilitate procedures that are now difficult to do and could impact outcomes. For some patients with particularly challenging anatomy or lesions, robotic catheter control may enable endovascular procedures in situations that might conventionally have been treated surgically. In these circumstances, we believe there may be significant benefits to the physician and hospital. In addition, similar to EP applications, we believe the use of robotic catheter control can lead to material reductions in radiation exposure to the physician, and potentially the patient, in the treatment of vascular disease. Remote navigation using the Sensei system has already demonstrated reductions in radiation exposure to the physician in electrophysiology applications. Finally, robotic catheter control (for simpler or off-the-shelf devices) has the potential to provide the improvements in radiation exposure reduction and 3D visualization of anatomic targets for more straightforward endovascular or interventional cases. We also believe there is the potential to convert surgical cases to endovascular cases using robotic catheter control, an innovation that could, if achieved, materially affect the course of endovascular disease management. Our Magellan Robotic System has been designed and engineered to meet the needs of vascular surgeons, interventional cardiologists, interventional radiologists and interventional neuro-radiologists, and extends the current Hansen Sensei architectural achievements in robotic catheter manipulation, catheter design, robotic capabilities, instinctive control, and data visualization. The architecture is intended to constitute a platform that we believe will extend our robotic capabilities significantly, and therefore depart from the current Sensei architecture in the following ways: 1. Our Magellan Robotic Catheter is smaller in diameter, has thinner walls, is more flexible, and is able to accommodate standard therapeutic device delivery; it is also longer, enabling it to reach distal anatomy. 2. We believe novel robotic technology with substantially more control mechanisms and visualization technology will provide a broader base of capabilities to selectively employ in a suite of tools for endovascular intervention and, in the future, structural heart interventions. The bedside robotic system, which includes the rack, bedside robot, setup joint and bedside box, has been designed to allow for independent, individual robotic control of the distal tip, manipulating more delicate catheters with more degrees of freedom over longer travel distances as well as enabling the manipulation of guide wires. 14 Table of Contents We anticipate that our Magellan Robotic System will be used in a variety of endovascular interventions, which may include some of the vascular applications described below. To date, The Magellan Robotic System has been used in over 500 endovascular procedures. We will first focus on addressing the lower extremity and thoraco-abdominal markets, which include endovascular treatment of the ilio-femoro-popliteal disease, and renal, celiac and mesenteric artery disease. We also intend to pursue robotic catheters for the diagnosis and treatment of disease in the coronary, carotid, and neurovascular areas with future development. Potential endovascular interventions Lower Extremity Artery Interventions. Critical limb ischemia, or CLI, occurs when the patient’s lower extremity arteries, such as femoral, popliteal, and below-the-knee arteries, cannot carry sufficient oxygen to ensure proper metabolism. This may limit the patient’s ability to perform common activities such as walking or climbing stairs. If untreated, CLI often results in limb amputation. According to Millennium Research Group, the number of angioplasty and stenting procedures of the ilio-femoro-popliteal and infrapopliteal segment in the U.S. and in portions of Europe (the UK, France, Germany Italy and Spain) in 2015 was forecasted to be approximately 633,800 and 364,400, respectively. The lower extremity market continues to be a fast-growing market showing device and technique innovation. While a broad range of therapeutic tools is available to the endovascular specialist, acute iliac bifurcations, tortuous iliac arteries, and chronic total occlusions, or CTOs, appear to remain key contributors to procedure complexity and unpredictability. We believe that the control at the catheter tip and the increased stability provided by the Vascular System may simplify the navigation of complex iliac bifurcation and other anatomic branch points and areas of tortuosity, minimize time from femoral stick to angioplasty or stenting, and result in shorter, more predictable procedure times. In addition, the Vascular System has the potential to provide a systematic approach for navigation of the iliac bifurcations and access to the contralateral leg, which may reduce the physician’s dependency on proper guide wire and catheter selection, and may reduce delays or technical failures. We also believe that by providing user-friendly and individual control of a guide wire and the catheter tip and through the provision of increased catheter support, the Vascular System may allow the crossing of CTOs, reduce the volume of conversions to bypass surgery, reduce procedure time and radiation exposure and enable more endovascular specialists to expand their practice to include the treatment of complex vascular disease. Renal Artery Interventions. According to Millennium Research Group, the number of renal artery stenting procedures forecasted in 2015 in the U.S. and in Europe was approximately 48,600 and 15,400, respectively. There has been an ongoing controversy on the superiority of renal artery stenting over medical therapy, and one of the concerns associated with renal artery stenting has been the risk of embolization caused by the dislodgement of embolic debris during manipulation of conventional catheters. We believe that providing instinctive steering of the catheter and accurate manipulation of the catheter tip to avoid point contact with the vessel wall may positively impact outcomes of renal, mesenteric and celiac artery stenting. Abdominal and Thoracic Aortic Aneurysm Repair. According to a Millennium Research Group study, in 2014, the number of abdominal and thoracic aneurysm endovascular repairs performed in the U.S. was forecasted to be approximately 46,000 and 11,000 respectively. Endovascular aneurysm repair, or EVAR, has been growing rapidly and cannibalizing surgical repair, because it has proven to be a minimally invasive procedure with similar effectiveness to surgical grafting and fast recovery times, which reduce costs of convalescence and perioperative complications and make EVAR a cost-effective solution to medical institutions. Embolization Procedures: According to the Millennium Research group, the U.S. market for peripheral vascular embolization will experience a 6.3% procedure growth through 2016 (CAGR 2012-2022), with cancer treatment embolization procedures as the highest growth factor. The Magellan Robotic System is currently being utilized in a variety of embolization procedures in which the robotic catheter navigates to a desired target location and then occlusive agents are deployed in the blood vessel to block flow to a tumor or other target. Embolization may also involves the deployment of chemotherapy or radioactive seeds for cancer treatment. Further embolization procedures where the Magellan Robotic System is currently being utilized are in the 15 Table of Contents treatment of uterine fibroids and benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlargement of the prostate). These are conditions that are present in female and male populations in vast numbers. Uterine fibroids are the most common solid pelvic tumor in women, causing symptoms in roughly 25% of all women of child-bearing age. By age 35, 25% of Caucasian women, 40% of Hispanic women, and 50% of African American women have clinically significant fibroids. Unfortunately, surgery is typically how large fibroids are ultimately treated. In the U.S., there are approximately 40,000 myomectomies performed as stand-alone treatments for fibroids and it is estimated that 33-50% of the approximately 600,000 annual hysterectomies in the U.S. are a result of uterine fibroids. A uterine fibroid embolization procedure (UFE) facilitated by the Magellan Robotic System, addresses the fibroid by cutting off blood supply to the key vessels by employing an embolic blocking agent. When the fibroid is denied its blood supply, it will ultimately shrink and be absorbed by the body. Robotic UFE can be an inpatient or outpatient procedure and studies suggest that fibroids are not likely to grow back after a UFE procedure. Currently there are only approximately 25,000 UFE procedures performed annually in the U.S., which may be related to a variety of factors including challenges such as access to patients and skills required to perform the procedure manually. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) is a condition that affects approximately 50% of the male population over 50 and up to 90% from 70-89 years old. BPH is highlighted by frequent urination, a weak urine stream and/or an urge to urinate. The current gold standard of treatment is either medication or a surgical procedure, TURP (Transurethral Resection of the Prostate). TURP is commonly performed by urologists but studies suggest it is only effective 70% of time and can result in a series of post-operative complications such as pain, bleeding, incontinence or impotence. Prostatic Artery Embolization (PAE) has been performed over the last 5-8 years and early studies show it to be a safe, effective and promising procedure that avoids many of the open surgical complications that result with TURP. We believe the introduction of the Magellan Robotic System for this procedure may prove to overcome vessel navigation challenges and other difficulties inherent with this procedure. EVAR, however, is in part technically challenging in situations where cannulation of portions of the graft must be achieved under fluoroscopy, or vessel embolization must be achieved prior to deployment of the endograft. The complex anatomy and the difficulty of controlling guide wires and catheters in an enlarged, diseased aorta may produce significant variability in procedure times, fluoroscopy use, and complication rates in patients needing pant leg grafts, or fenestrated or branched grafts. We believe that our Vascular System may be able to provide a more systematic approach to vessel and graft cannulation, which may result in shorter, more consistent procedure times, and reduce radiation exposure and use of contrast. Carotid Artery Stenting. Carotid artery stenting, or CAS, is an alternate therapy to surgical carotid endarterectomy, and may be performed by the interventional cardiologist, the interventional radiologist, or the vascular surgeon. According to Millennium Research Group, the number of carotid artery stenting procedures forecasted in 2015 in the US and in Europe was approximately 24, 200 and 19,400, respectively. The growth of CAS has been hindered by controversial clinical results. Carotid artery stenting is a procedure that requires, in many cases, navigation of tortuous anatomy, placement of multiple devices in sequence to achieve procedural success, and manipulation of these devices at a distance to achieve appropriate placement and long-term efficacy. We believe that by enabling fine control of the catheter tip and increased catheter stability, our Vascular System may provide a systematic approach for navigation of the aortic arch, improve access consistency for physicians treating complex arches and tortuous carotid anatomy, resulting in more consistent procedure times, and reducing physician’s fatigue caused by the lack of control of the distal end of conventional catheters. Coronary Artery Interventions and Chronic Total Occlusion Crossing. According to Millennium Research Group in 2008, the number of percutaneous coronary interventions forecasted in 2010 in the US and in Europe was approximately 1,000,000 and 740,000, respectively. Based on physician interviews we have conducted, technical difficulties associated with coronary artery stenting seem to originate from the lack of stability of the distal section of the guiding catheter and from limited ability of catheters and guide wires to cannulate acutely angulated coronary branches. We believe that by providing stability and steering at the tip of the catheter, as well as instinctive driving of the catheter, the Vascular System may facilitate branch cannulation. We also believe that active catheter control through tip steering and catheter pull wire manipulation can provide increased stability at 16 Table of Contents the site of intervention and may decrease the risk of having the guiding catheter be dislodged out of the coronary artery during guide wire manipulation and therapy delivery. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR). Transcatheter aortic valve replacement represents an emerging alternative therapy for high-risk and inoperable patients with severe valve disease, and may offer advantages over open heart surgery. For example, non-surgical heart valve replacement may minimize complications associated with general anesthesia, opening the chest wall and the use of heart-lung bypass machines. Percutaneous aortic valve replacement using a catheter-based approach may enable surgeons to perform procedures under local anesthesia in a cardiac catheterization lab. This may be a preferred alternative for high-risk valve disease patients who otherwise have no choice but open heart surgery, and more importantly, for those patients with life-threatening valve disease who cannot undergo surgery. We believe that the controlled and precise access and deployment that robotics can provide in an endovascular aortic valve replacement has the potential for enabling current surgical valve candidates to be treated less invasively. Research and Development As of December 31, 2014, our research and development team consisted of 29 people and our regulatory, clinical and quality team consisted of 18 people. We have assembled an experienced team with recognized expertise in robotics, mechanical and electrical engineering, software, control algorithms, systems integration and disposable device design, as well as significant clinical knowledge and expertise. Our research and development efforts are focused in the following major areas: • continuing to enhance the capabilities of our Magellan Robotic System and Magellan Robotic Catheters and related accessories; • continuing to enhance the capabilities of our existing Sensei system and our Artisan catheters through ongoing product and software development; • developing new capabilities for our robotic technology; • designing new proprietary disposable interventional devices for use with our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System; and • developing new applications for our technology and related additions to our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System, new control catheters, or integration with other imaging technologies or other modalities. Our research and development team works independently and with other manufacturers of EP lab equipment to integrate our open architecture platform with key imaging, location sensing and information systems in the EP labs. We also collaborate with a number of highly regarded electrophysiologists and cardiologists in key clinical areas in search of new applications for our technology. We plan to use a similar strategy for incorporation into endovascular labs. We have historically spent a significant portion of our capital resources on research and development. Our research and development expenses were $18.0 million, $16.1 million and $16.1 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors — We may not be able to further develop our Magellan Robotic System as planned, which could significantly harm our ability to achieve future regulatory approvals and market acceptance” and “— Our products and related technologies can be applied in different applications, and we may fail to focus on the most profitable areas or we may be unable to address successfully financial and technology risks associated with new applications, including applications for the vascular market.” Sales and Marketing We market, sell and support our products in the United States through a direct sales force of regional sales employees, supported by clinical account managers who provide training, clinical support and other services to 17 Table of Contents our customers. Outside the United States, primarily in the European Union, we use a combination of a direct sales force and distributors to market, sell and support our products. We have established sales subsidiaries in the U.K. and Germany and have hired sales representatives in the U.K. and Germany. We currently have distribution agreements in several other countries outside of the United States, U.K. and Germany. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks; see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion. As of December 31, 2014, we had a direct sales force, clinical support team and marketing team of 44 employees. We use the same sales and marketing force to drive sales of both our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System. Our sales and marketing process consists of two important steps: selling systems directly to the customer; and leveraging our installed base of systems to drive recurring sales of disposable interventional devices, software and services. Our end users fall into three broad categories: • leading academic institutions with physician thought leaders who are interested in performing complex new procedures enabled or simplified by our system; • high-volume non-academic regional centers interested in the benefits of our system; and • medium and low volume community hospitals that are competing for patients, attempting to minimize referrals of complex cases to other centers and focusing on gaining market share in their regional markets. Many hospitals are part of an integrated delivery network, or IDN, and/or a group purchasing organization, or GPO. When possible, we focus on leveraging opportunities in which we believe a sale to one member of an IDN or GPO creates interest and drives competition within that group. We also focus sales and marketing development activities where strategic synergies or competition exist between our current installed base and other area hospitals. Following the initial sale of a system to a hospital, we endeavor to expand the number of physicians who use our systems at that hospital. We believe these efforts will benefit early-adopting hospitals by increasing their market share in the procedures and specialties that benefit from procedures performed with our systems. We expect these efforts to increase demand for our disposable products among hospitals, physicians and referring physicians. Sales of medical capital equipment generally follow a staged sales process that includes the following: • generating initial customer interest; • gaining commitment from the customer, which often involves a formal written proposal; • helping the customer secure formal budget approval for the system purchase; • receiving a formal purchase order from the customer after its approval process is complete and after sales terms have been agreed upon; and • installing the system at the customer’s site and providing physician and staff training so it is used properly. Our systems utilize proprietary control catheters, as well as software tailored to specific clinical applications. After a system is installed and initial training has been completed, we provide ongoing support in order to increase customers’ familiarity with system features and benefits, with the goal of increasing usage of 18 Table of Contents the system. More frequent usage will result in increased consumption of our disposable catheters. One year of customer support is included with each system. Thereafter, we market extended service contracts to continue to provide support and we anticipate that service beyond the basic warranty will increasingly be an important additional source of revenue. We expect that our relationships with physician thought leaders in the fields of EP and vascular disease will continue to be an important element of our selling efforts. These relationships are often built around research collaborations that enable us to better understand and articulate the most useful features and benefits of our system as well as to develop new solutions to long-standing challenges in interventional electrophysiology and peripheral vascular disease. We plan to continue to provide support for and collaborate with highly regarded physicians in order to accelerate market awareness and adoption of our systems. We have developed a comprehensive solution to assist our customers in marketing their new Sensei system and robotic EP program. The flexible robotics program is a broad based and robust toolkit designed to assist our customer hospitals in using the development of a robotic EP program as a tool to market the hospital’s quality, commitment to patient care and innovation. The program is a virtual toolbox that contains both the programmatic and content elements that are designed to plan, initiate, and execute public relations and outreach campaigns, influence and change referral patterns to improve market share in the hospital’s catchment area, enliven hospital personnel and patients around the benefits of our innovative robotic technology, and develop substantial awareness of the technology and the physicians employing it. We have experienced a number of hospital level examples of the benefits that this program brings to all of our constituents and believe it will be an important component of the drive to adoption and utilization of the technology. We have also developed these tools for use in our distributor channels. Leveraging off our experience with the Sensei system, we have developed a program to similarly market our Magellan Robotic System. See Item 1A — “Risk Factors — If we fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.” Customer Service and Support As of December, 31, 2014, we had a customer service and support team of 10 employees. These employees form a call center, a network of field service engineers and a service parts logistics repair and delivery system. We also outsource the after-hours portion of our call center, including weekends and holidays, to an answering service. This infrastructure provides a single point of contact for our customers via telephone and email and enables us to provide online, telephone and on-site technical support services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In addition, we now offer post-warranty maintenance plans for our customers to manage their on-going support needs. We plan to expand our technical training and support capabilities as our installed base continues to grow. Manufacturing As of December 31, 2014, we had a manufacturing team of 46 employees. We manufacture our systems and catheters using a combination of in-house manufacturing and third-party contract manufacturers. Some of the components for our systems are single sourced. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers for our single-source components, in part because of FDA requirements and because of the custom nature of the parts we utilize. Any supply interruption for any of these components or interruptions at our contract manufacturers could limit our ability to manufacture our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face technical challenges in our manufacturing processes, including manufacturing cost reductions, equipment design and automation, material procurement, problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. Developing our current manufacturing capacity has required the investment of substantial funds and additional changes in the future to reduce manufacturing costs or to adapt our capacity to market fluctuations may require the investment of substantial additional funds and the hiring and retaining of management and 19 Table of Contents technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete any future required change in manufacturing ability on a timely basis or at all. Lead times for materials and components ordered by us and our contract manufacturers vary and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. We and our contract manufacturers acquire materials, complete standard subassemblies and assemble fully configured systems based on sales forecasts. If orders do not match forecasts, we and our contract manufacturers may have excess or inadequate inventory of materials and components. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors — If we are unable to manufacture our systems and catheters in a manner that yield sufficient gross margins, we will be unable to achieve profitable commercialization” and “— We have limited experience in manufacturing and assembling our products and may encounter problems at our manufacturing facilities or otherwise experience manufacturing delays that could result in lost revenue or diminishing margins.” The Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System Our systems incorporate a number of custom parts and components that we have designed and which are manufactured to our specifications by third parties. Our manufacturing strategy for our systems is to assemble some critical subsystems in-house while outsourcing less critical subsystems, and to complete the final assembly and testing of those components in-house in order to control quality. Artisan and Magellan catheters and guide catheter assembly Our catheters consist almost entirely of custom parts which we have designed and are manufactured either by us or by contract manufacturers to our specifications. We currently assemble catheters in-house. We outsource the manufacture of certain other disposable products, including sterile drapes used with our system in EP procedures. We also manufacture prototype disposables to facilitate future product development. Software We develop the software components of our systems, including control and application software, both internally and with integrated modules which we purchase or license from third parties. We perform final testing of software products in-house prior to commercial release. Regulatory framework Our manufacturing facilities operate under processes designed to meet the FDA’s requirements under the Quality System Regulation. We underwent an FDA inspection, which employed the Quality System Inspection Technique, or QSIT, in 2014 and received one inspectional observation. We received the establishment inspection report (EIR) from the FDA on January 26, 2015 after the agency closed the inspection per CFR 20.64. If the FDA were to find that we are not operating in compliance with applicable regulations, we could be subject to enforcement action by FDA and/or the U.S. Department of Justice, which may include one or more of the following administrative or judicial sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; • customer notifications or mandatory plans for product repair, product replacement, or refunds; • recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our submission seeking 510(k) clearance, investigational device exemptions (IDE) to perform clinical studies or premarket approval of new products or modified products; 20 Table of Contents • operating restrictions; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or IDE/PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval or issue export documentation for our products; • import holds; or • criminal prosecution. Our existing quality management system passed a European Notified Body audit in 2014, and it was determined that we are in compliance with the requirements of ISO 13485 standard. Through such compliance with the ISO 13485 standard, we benefit from a presumption of conformity with the relevant quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to Council Directive 93/42/EEC concerning medical devices (Medical Devices Directive). If we fail to maintain compliance with the FDA requirements or maintain compliance with the ISO 13485 standard and the relevant quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive in the future, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA the U.S. Department of Justice and/or the competent authorities of the European Economic Area (EEA), the suspension or withdrawal of our CE Certificate of Conformity by our Notified Body or we may be required to cease all or part of our manufacturing operations for some period of time until we can demonstrate that appropriate steps have been taken to comply with such standards. Our facility and our clinical investigational sites operate under procedures that govern the conduct and management of FDA-regulated clinical studies. The FDA may conduct Bioresearch Monitoring or BiMo inspections of us and/or our clinical sites to assess compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, including those at 21 CFR Parts 50, 54, 56 and 812, our procedures, and the applicable clinical protocol. If the FDA were to find that we or our clinical investigators are not operating in compliance with applicable regulations, we could be subject to the above enforcement action as well as FDA refusal to accept all or part of our data in support of a 510(k) notification or PMA and/ or we may need to conduct additional studies. Our manufacturing facility also has been inspected and licensed by the California Department of Health Services, or CDHS, and remains subject to re-inspection at any time. Failure to maintain a license from the CDHS or to meet the inspection criteria of the CDHS would disrupt our manufacturing processes. If an inspection by the CDHS were to indicate that there are deficiencies in our manufacturing process, we could be required to take remedial actions at potentially significant expense, and our facility may be temporarily or permanently closed. Force Dimension Development and Supply Agreement On November 9, 2004, we entered into a Development and Supply Agreement with Force Dimension Sàrl, a Swiss limited liability company. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Force Dimension manufactures and supplies to us specially-configured motion controllers in accordance with a predefined pricing matrix. We may terminate the agreement for any reason upon 30 days’ notice to Force Dimension, provided that we will remain obligated to purchase all delivered and ordered master input devices at the time of such termination. Either party may terminate the agreement for a material breach by the other party if the material breach is not cured within 90 days of notice of the material breach. Force Dimension is a single-source supplier for the motion controllers in our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System. Reimbursement We expect that healthcare facilities and physicians in the United States will continue to bill various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental programs and private insurers, for services performed using our products. We believe that procedures performed with our products are generally already reimbursable under governmental programs and most private plans and claims for services using our products are 21 Table of Contents generally reimbursed under existing billing codes. We cannot be certain, however, that current coverage, coding and reimbursement policies of third-party payors will continue or the extent to which future changes to coding, coverage and reimbursement policies will affect some or all of the procedures that would use our robotic systems. Future legislation, regulation or coverage and reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for our products (currently marketed and under development) and limit our ability to profitably sell our products. For example, the Budget Control Act of 2011, enacted on August 2, 2011, established a process to reduce federal budget deficits through an automatic “sequestration” process beginning in January 2013 if deficit reductions targets were not otherwise reached. Under the terms of the Budget Control Act, sequestration imposes across-the-board cuts to a wide range of federal programs, including but not limited to Medicare payments to plans and providers (subject to a 2% cap), in the years 2013 to 2021. Sequestration was delayed by two months, however, under the American Taxpayer Relief Act, which was enacted on January 2, 2013. Medicare payments to medical providers and health plans were reduced by 2% beginning in April 2013. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, enacted on December 26, 2013, extends these cuts to 2023. Such changes to the reimbursement rates for procedures in which our products are used, or alternative budget proposals that include reductions in health care spending, could adversely impact our business. In addition, the Medicare payment systems for hospitals (inpatient and outpatient) and physicians are updated annually and reimbursement rates can vary from year to year based on a number of legislative, regulatory, and/or other policy changes. For example, there is a statutory formula known as the sustainable growth rate or SGR formula for determining annual payment updates for physicians’ professional services. For several years, this statutory formula has resulted in significant decreases to physician reimbursement, but Congress has repeatedly enacted legislation to temporarily block the cuts. Most recently, Congress included a provision in the Pathway for SGR Reform Act of 2013, enacted on December 26, 2013, to prevent a scheduled 20.1% cut from going into effect; instead, Medicare physician payment rates generally increased by 0.5% through March 31, 2014. If Congress fails to intervene in the future to block schedule physician reimbursement reductions under the SGR formula, or if future legislation decreases Medicare payments to physicians, it could adversely impact our business. Reimbursement for the treatment of patients with our products in EEA countries is governed by complex mechanisms established on a national level in each country. These mechanisms vary widely between the EEA countries. Moreover, these mechanisms evolve constantly, reflecting the efforts of these countries to reduce public spending on healthcare. As a result, obtaining reimbursement for the treatment of patients with medical devices has become more and more challenging. We cannot, therefore, guarantee that the treatment of patients with our products would be reimbursed in any of these countries. We are aware that physicians may elect to use products we sell for off-label indications, including, for example, the use of our Sensei system for procedures to treat atrial fibrillation in the United States. We believe that both physicians and hospitals are currently reimbursed for these and certain other procedures even when the procedures are performed off-label using other manufacturers’ products. We cannot be certain, however, that third-party payors will continue to provide coverage and/or reimbursement to physicians and hospitals for off-label use of products to treat atrial fibrillation or any other procedures. In addition, we cannot be certain that third-party payors will not require extensive clinical support showing the efficacy and cost effectiveness of off-label uses of our products before providing coverage and reimbursement for such procedures. If such support is required, we may not be able to satisfy such requests within the limitations of our FDA cleared labeling or the intended purposes for which our devices are CE marked. Intellectual Property Since our inception, our strategy has been to patent the technology, inventions and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business and technology. Our intellectual property portfolio, including patents and patent applications that we own or license, covers key aspects of our Sensei system and catheter products, as well as other technology that we have under development. As a result, we believe that we are building an extensive 22 Table of Contents intellectual property portfolio to protect the fundamental scope of our technology, including our robotic technology, navigational methods, procedures, systems, disposable interventional devices and our three dimensional integration technology. As of December 31, 2014, we licensed or owned 125 issued U.S. patents and 89 pending U.S. patent applications, 37 granted foreign patents and over 53 pending foreign applications. We also share the rights to a number of patents and patent applications under the September 2005 cross license agreement and the January 2010 cross license agreement with Intuitive Surgical, Inc., or Intuitive, which in turn shares rights to certain of our patents and pending patent applications pursuant to the cross license agreements. In addition, we received a license to certain patents and patent applications licensed or owned by Luna Innovations Incorporated, or Luna, as part of the litigation settlement entered in January 2010. Some of our rights in these patents licensed from Luna have in turn been sublicensed to Philips in connection with our February 2011 agreements. We also have a number of invention disclosures under consideration and several new patent applications that are being prepared for filing, and we continue to gain the benefit of certain new patent applications and patents by virtue of the cross license agreement with Intuitive. Accordingly, we anticipate that the number of pending patent applications and patents in our portfolio will increase. In addition to our existing patent coverage that we expect to build upon, we believe it would be technically difficult and costly to reverse engineer our products and technology. Further, we have developed substantial know-how in robotic design and robotic instrument control which we maintain as trade secrets or copyrighted software. Further successful commercializing of our Sensei system, our Magellan Robotic System and any other products we may develop, will depend in part on our not infringing patents held by third parties. It is possible that one or more of our products, including those that we have developed in conjunction with third parties, infringes existing patents. From time to time, we receive letters from one or more third parties alleging that certain aspects of our systems infringe issued patent(s) or asking us to consider licensing their patent rights. While we do not believe that our systems infringe any valid and enforceable patent of any third party, there can be no assurance that any third party will not take further action, such as filing a patent infringement lawsuit, including a request for injunctive relief, to bar the manufacture and sale of our systems in the United States or elsewhere. There also can be no assurance that we will not seek to take the initiative in defending ourselves by instituting litigation against such third party challenges. We have applied for trademark registration of, and claim trademark rights in, “Magellan” and “Hansen Medical Magellan.” We have obtained trademark registration for, and claim trademark rights in “Artisan Extend,” “Hansen Medical,” “Hansen Medical (with Heart Design),” “Heart Design (Logo),” “Sensei,” “Artisan,” “Instinctive Motion,” “Fine Force Technology” and “IntelliSense.” This report also includes other trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies. Cross License Agreement with Intuitive Surgical On September 1, 2005, we entered into a cross license agreement with Intuitive. Pursuant to this agreement, Intuitive granted us a co-exclusive, worldwide license in the field of intravascular approaches for the diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular, neurovascular and peripheral vascular diseases. In return, we granted Intuitive a co-exclusive, worldwide license in the fields of endoscopic, laparoscopic, thoracoscopic or open diagnosis and/or surgical procedures, including endoluminal applications in gastrointestinal, respiratory, ear, nose and throat, urologic and gynecologic surgery. These licenses cover our and Intuitive’s patents and patent applications that were filed on or prior to the date of the agreement, as well as later filed divisionals, continuations and continuations in part with respect to the matters that were part of the original patents and patent applications as of the date of the agreement, but not any other later-filed patents and patent applications. In addition, these licenses cover all trade secrets and other know-how that we and Intuitive disclosed to each other prior to the date of the agreement. Each party retained full rights to practice its own technology for all purposes. As consideration for the licenses granted by Intuitive, we issued 125,000 shares of our Series B preferred stock to Intuitive in 2005 (which converted into 125,000 shares of our common stock at the time of our initial public offering) and owe royalties to Intuitive on certain product sales, including annual minimum royalties of $200,000. We will not receive any royalties or other compensation from Intuitive under the agreement. 23 Table of Contents Each party has agreed not to engage in activities outside its licensed field that, to its knowledge, would infringe the other party’s licensed patents. Although we believe that there are opportunities for us to operate outside the licensed field of use without the use of the Intuitive intellectual property, Intuitive, from time to time has told us that it believes certain of our past activities that have fallen outside the licensed field have infringed its intellectual property rights. Although we disagree with Intuitive’s position, we presently remain focused within our licensed field and so have agreed to inform Intuitive before commencing any further outside clinical investigations for endoluminal applications or engaging in external technology exhibitions at non-intravascular conferences. There can be no assurance that Intuitive will not challenge any activities we engage in outside the intravascular space and we cannot be sure that in the event of such a challenge we would be able to reach agreement with Intuitive on whether activities outside our licensed field may be conducted without the use of Intuitive’s intellectual property. Any disputes regarding a party’s potential infringement of the other party’s licensed patents that cannot be resolved through discussions between the parties will be settled by litigation. If such litigation results in a judgment of infringement that cannot be appealed and the infringing party fails to cease such infringement within a specified cure period, the non-infringing party will have the right to terminate the agreement. The parties have also agreed on a procedure under which either party may, but is not obligated to, ask an arbitration panel to make a binding determination as to whether or not a new product being developed by such party would, if commercialized outside such party’s licensed field, infringe any issued patents of the other party. The agreement may be terminated by either party for bankruptcy of the other party. We also have the right to terminate the agreement at any time on or after March 1, 2018, and if we exercise this termination right, the licenses granted to us by Intuitive will terminate, but the licenses granted by us to Intuitive will survive. Neither party is permitted to terminate the agreement based on a breach by the other party, except in the event of the other party’s failure to cease infringing activity as described above or to remedy a significant payment default that has been established through a court judgment that cannot be appealed. If a party terminates the agreement for one of these types of breaches, the licenses granted by this party will terminate, but the licenses granted to this party will survive. In the absence of any early termination, the agreement will expire upon the expiration of the last to expire of the patents licensed under the agreement. On January 12, 2010, in association with the agreements signed as a result of our settlement with Luna, we entered into a cross license agreement with Intuitive, under which we and Intuitive granted each other royalty-free, non-exclusive licenses within the medical robotics field to certain fiber optic shape sensing/localization technology owned or in-licensed by each party as of the effective date of the agreement or within the five-year period after the effective date of the agreement. The non-exclusive licenses can only be sublicensed in connection with each party’s respective products, except for our right to sublicense for single degree of freedom medical devices. In addition, we and Intuitive granted each other royalty-free, co-exclusive licenses within the medical robotics field to certain fiber optic shape-sensing/localization technology developed in whole or in part by Luna for each party. The co-exclusive licenses can only be sublicensed in connection with each party’s respective products, except that we may freely sublicense single degree of freedom medical devices. We have the right, along with Intuitive, to enforce the co-exclusively licensed intellectual property. The term of this agreement is until the expiration of the last to expire of the patents licensed under the agreement, unless extended or shortened by mutual agreement. In October 2012, we signed an amendment to our license agreement with Intuitive Surgical under which Intuitive Surgical paid us a $20 million licensing fee. The amendment of the license agreement is an update to the co-exclusive cross license agreement signed by the companies in 2005. Under the terms of the amended agreement, Intuitive Surgical’s existing co-exclusive rights to our patent portfolio to certain non-vascular procedures have been extended to include patents filed or conceived by us subsequent to the original 2005 agreement up to and including the period three years subsequent to the amendment though we have no obligations to conduct any research activities under the amendment. In addition, the first sentence of the 24 Table of Contents definition of “Hansen Field of Use” was modified by the Amended License Agreement to read: “Hansen Field of Use” means the research, development, manufacture, use, sale, promotion, distribution and importation of medical devices and systems for intravascular approaches for the diagnosis and/or treatment of cardiovascular, neurovascular, and peripheral vascular diseases, wherein the distal end of the medical device or system, after entering a blood vessel, remains within the blood vessel or branches of the blood vessel for the delivery of the diagnostic or therapeutic modality for which the device or system is being used.” We retain the right to use our intellectual property for all clinical applications, both vascular and non-vascular. License Agreement with Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories On March 7, 2003, we entered into a License Agreement with Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc., or Mitsubishi. Pursuant to this agreement, we obtained an exclusive, worldwide license to certain Mitsubishi patents and related know-how for use in the field of therapeutic or diagnostic vascular or endoluminal intervention involving robotics, automation or telemanipulation. In consideration for such license, we issued 9,375 shares of our common stock to Mitsubishi and paid commercialization milestones. Additionally, we owe minimum annual royalties of $100,000 which reduces to $55,000 if the license becomes non-exclusive and royalties on certain product sales, subject to an annual royalty cap. Under the agreement, we are obligated to use reasonable commercial efforts to commercialize royalty-bearing products. The agreement may be terminated by Mitsubishi in the event of an uncured material breach by us. In addition, we can terminate the agreement for any reason with advanced written notice to Mitsubishi. License Agreement with Luna Innovations Incorporated On January 12, 2010, we entered into license agreement with Luna. Under the license agreement, Luna granted us a co-exclusive (with Intuitive), royalty-free, fully paid, perpetual and irrevocable license to Luna’s fiber optic shape sensing/localization technology within the medical robotics field. The license can only be sublicensed in connection with our products, except that we can grant full sublicenses to third parties for single degree of freedom medical devices. Intuitive received a corresponding co-exclusive license within the medical robotics field from Luna under a separate license agreement between Intuitive and Luna. Under the license agreement, Luna also granted to us a royalty-free, fully paid, perpetual and irrevocable license to Luna’s fiber optic shape-sensing/localization technology for non-robotic medical devices, which license is exclusive (and fully sublicenseable) within the orthopedics, vascular, and endoluminal fields and otherwise co-exclusive with Luna. We have the right along with Intuitive to enforce the intellectual property licensed by Luna within the medical robotics field. The license agreement provides for us to grant to Luna a nonexclusive, sublicenseable, royalty-free, fully paid, perpetual and irrevocable license under certain of our fiber optic shape sensing/localization technology outside of the medical robotics field and outside the orthopedics, vascular and endoluminal fields. In this agreement, Luna confirmed our ownership of certain intellectual property developed in whole or in part by Luna under the parties’ prior development agreement as well as ownership of certain Hansen patents in the event it is determined that any Luna personnel are inventors with respect to such patents. In January 2014, Luna sold to Intuitive substantially all of its assets related to its medical shape sensing business, including all of patents and patent applications used or useful for its fiber optical shape sensing and localization technology. Luna’s transfer of technology to Intuitive was made subject to their existing licenses and related obligations with us and Philips and we have not assigned or transferred any of our agreements with Luna to Intuitive. Agreements with Philips In the fourth quarter of 2009, we entered into an extended joint development agreement with Philips Electronics, N.V. or Philips. Under the terms of the agreement, we have, with support and collaboration from 25 Table of Contents Philips, developed a vascular robotics platform and associated catheters, or Vascular System. The Vascular System does not include our Sensei Robotic Catheter System or any system used for endoluminal, cardiac or other non-vascular procedures. Pursuant to the agreement, Philips partially funded our development costs based upon our achievement of development milestones for the Vascular System and will receive royalties based on sales of the Vascular System subject to caps. In February 2011, we amended the extended joint development agreement, which increased the amount of funding provided by Philips for the development of the Vascular System and extended and increased the royalties to be paid to Philips. We reached the final milestone under the agreement and received our final payment from Philips in October 2011. We will pay Philips royalties based on the number of Magellan Robotic Systems and Magellan Robotic Catheters that are sold, subject to caps, through October 2017. In February 2011, we entered, directly and through a wholly-owned subsidiary, into patent and technology license, sublicense and purchase agreements with Philips to allow them to develop and commercialize the non-robotic applications of our Fiber Optic Shape Sensing and Localization, or FOSSL, technology. Under the terms of the FOSSL agreements, Philips has the exclusive right to develop and commercialize the FOSSL technology in the non-robotic vascular, endoluminal and orthopedic fields. Philips also receives non-exclusive rights in other non-robotic medical device fields, but not to any multi-degree of freedom robotic applications. If Philips does not meet certain specified commercialization obligations, we have the right to re-acquire the licenses granted to Philips for pre-determined payments, which payments in the aggregate would be greater than the upfront payment amounts we received from Philips in connection with the agreements related to the FOSSL technology. The FOSSL agreements also contains customary representations, warranties and indemnification provisions by each party. Each party may terminate the FOSSL agreements for material breach by the other party. Philips also has the right to terminate the FOSSL agreements and its rights under the agreement if we are acquired by a competitor of the relevant business unit of Philips. In connection with the FOSSL agreements, we received upfront payments of $23.0 million and will be eligible to receive up to an additional $78.0 million in future payments associated with the successful commercialization by Philips or its collaborators of products containing FOSSL technology. Approximately two-thirds of these potential future payments could arise from Philips’ sublicensing the FOSSL technology and approximately one-third of the potential future payments are based on Philips’ royalty obligations on its sales of products containing the FOSSL technology. We would receive less than half of Philips’ proceeds for its sublicensing FOSSL technology, if and following Philips entering into an applicable sublicensing transaction. Philips’ FOSSL-related royalty obligations are calculated on a consistent annual basis between 2014 and 2020 and arise in any year only to the extent that Philips achieves a substantial number of commercial placements of FOSSL-enabled products in the calendar year. Competition The markets for medical devices are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological advances, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and price erosion. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: • safety, efficacy and high-quality performance of products; • integration with a three-dimensional visualization methodology; • ease of use and comfort for the physician; • cost of capital equipment and disposable products, including the cost of installation and maintenance; • eligibility for coverage and reimbursement; • procedure times and improved clinical outcomes for patients; • effective sales, marketing and distribution; 26 Table of Contents • brand awareness and strong acceptance by healthcare professionals, hospital administration and patients; • training, service and support and comprehensive education for patients and physicians; and • intellectual property leadership and superiority. We consider our primary competition for our robotic systems to be in the following areas: • Drug therapies. Drug therapy is currently considered the first line treatment for electrophysiological conditions such as atrial fibrillation. As a result, physicians typically attempt to treat these conditions with drugs designed to control heart rate and heart rhythm before indicating interventional procedures. Among atrial fibrillation patients, long-term efficacy of medications is poor in 60 percent to 80 percent of patients, per GlobalData, Electrophysiology – Global Analysis and Market Forecasts report in March 2014. Atrial fibrillation patients who do respond well to medication are not considered candidates for interventional treatment. Therefore, we face competition with the companies who currently market or are developing drugs or gene therapies to treat electrophysiological conditions such as atrial fibrillation. To the extent that more effective drug therapies are developed and approved for use in treating EP conditions such as atrial fibrillation, we will face increased competition. • Manual catheter-based interventional techniques. The vast majority of interventional EP and peripheral vascular procedures performed today are performed with several types of hand-held catheters including Medtronic, Inc.’s Cryoablation products for EP and manual sheaths and guiding catheters for peripheral vascular procedures. These products evolve rapidly, and their manufacturers are constantly attempting to make them more efficacious in performing the broad range of endovascular procedures conducted by endovascular physicians. • Magnetic guidance systems for steering catheters. Stereotaxis, Inc. markets a system that has been on the market in the United States and in Europe since 2003 and that uses magnets to control the working tip of catheters and other control catheters during interventional EP and other procedures. Because the system was introduced prior to our Sensei system and has a significant installed base, we believe it currently leads the market for guidance systems for controlling the working tip of catheters and catheter-based technologies. • New approaches. We expect to face competition from companies that are developing new approaches and products for use in interventional procedures. Some of these companies may attempt to use robotic techniques to compete directly with us, such as Corindus, Inc. and Catheter Robotics, Inc. We believe, however, that several of these solutions merely involve robotic control of typical manual devices like off the shelf wires and catheters. We believe that, solely from a clinical perspective, the inability to more effectively control these devices robotically at their tip is a significant departure from the value we have realized through the application of flexible robotics. Many potential competitors also have an established presence in the field of interventional cardiology, including the major imaging, capital equipment and disposables companies that are currently selling products in the EP and vascular lab. The use of catheters and catheter-based technologies is common for a broad range of interventional procedures in cardiology, vascular and in other medical specialties. Other companies may market guidance systems for use in complex vascular procedures as well as other uses outside of EP. In addition, we believe that Intuitive is developing a system to guide flexible medical devices in fields such as urology, gynecology, gastrointestinal disease, and other medical fields outside of cardiology. While they may not use our patents in EP, cardiology or vascular procedures, Intuitive may attempt to compete directly with us in EP and cardiology, and will likely compete with us if we decide to offer products outside of our licensed field of treating cardiovascular, neurovascular and peripheral vascular diseases. We also face competition from large medical device companies that have significantly greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. Large medical device companies such as Johnson & Johnson, St. Jude Medical, Boston Scientific and others, as well as a variety of smaller innovative companies, such as Stereotaxis, Inc., are also 27 Table of Contents expected to be targeting the EP and cardiology markets for guiding flexible medical devices. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of risks regarding competition. Government Regulation The healthcare industry, and thus our business, is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation. Some of the pertinent laws have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change. Both federal and state governmental agencies continue to subject the healthcare industry to intense regulatory scrutiny, including heightened civil and criminal enforcement efforts. As indicated by work plans and reports issued by these agencies, the federal government will continue to scrutinize, among other things, the billing practices of healthcare providers and the marketing of healthcare products. The federal government also has increased funding in recent years to fight healthcare fraud, and various agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, and state Medicaid Fraud Control Units, are coordinating their enforcement efforts. We believe that we have structured our business operations and relationships with our customers to comply with all applicable legal requirements. However, it is possible that governmental entities or other third parties could interpret these laws differently and assert otherwise. In addition, because there is a risk that our products are used off label, we believe we are subject to increased risk of prosecution under these laws and by these entities even if we believe we are acting appropriately. We discuss below the statutes and regulations that are most relevant to our business and most frequently cited in enforcement actions. U.S. Food and Drug Administration Regulation The FDA strictly regulates medical devices under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, and the regulations promulgated under the FFDCA. The FFDCA and the implementing regulations govern, among other things, the following activities relating to our medical devices: preclinical and clinical testing, design, manufacture, safety, efficacy, premarket clearance and approval, labeling, storage, record keeping, sales and distribution, product import and export, postmarket adverse event reporting, postmarket studies and surveillance, recalls, and advertising and promotion. Our medical devices are categorized under the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. This framework is a risk-based system that classifies medical devices into three classes from lowest risk (Class I) to highest risk (Class III). In general, Class I devices are subject to only general controls (e.g., establishment registration and listing products with FDA, recordkeeping, labeling, reporting adverse events, good manufacturing practice requirements,, and prohibitions against adulteration and misbranding) In some cases, a Class I device may not be marketed until a FDA clears a 510(k) notification via the 510(k) clearance process described below Class II devices are also subject to general control, but also may be subject to special controls such as performance standards and FDA guidelines that are not applied to Class I devices. Most class II devices may not be marketed until a FDA clears a 510(k) notification via the 510(k) clearance process described below. Finally most Class III devices may not be marketed until FDA approves a premarket approval application, or PMA, via the PMA approval process described below. Class III devices are those deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as a life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable device, or a device deemed not substantially equivalent to any previously cleared 510(k) device. Both 510(k) notifications and PMA require the payment of user fees paid at the time of submission for FDA review. The currently-cleared uses of our Sensei/Artisan and Magellan products are classified in Class II, but future applications, such as ablation in treatment of specific arrhythmias could be classified in Class III. 28 Table of Contents The 510(k) Clearance Process. In the 510(k) process, the FDA reviews a premarket notification and determines whether or not a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a previously cleared 510(k) device, a device that has been reclassified from Class III to Class I or Class II, or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of premarket approval applications, any of which is referred to as a “predicate device.” In making this determination, the FDA compares the proposed device to the predicate device. If the new device is substantially equivalent in intended use and safety and effectiveness to the predicate device, the new device may be cleared for marketing. FDA has committed to review most premarket notifications within 90 days, but the review clock may be stopped due to requests for additional information. A decision may take significantly longer and clearance is never guaranteed. In reviewing a premarket notification, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data. Recent changes to FDA’s expectations for data support for 510(k) clearance may require the submission of more clinical or pre-clinical data than has previously been required. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require PMA approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the agency can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance, the agency may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained. Also, the manufacturer may be subject to significant administrative or judicial sanctions, as described below. In May 2007, the FDA cleared our Sensei system and Artisan Control Catheter for promotion for use in mapping the heart anatomy with two specified mapping catheters. When the FDA cleared our technology for promotion in the U.S., it concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that our products will be used for an intended use not identified in the proposed labeling and that such uses could cause harm. The FDA therefore required that we label our products in the United States with language spelling out that the safety and effectiveness of our products for use with cardiac ablation catheters, in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, have not been established. Although FDA did not require contraindication of this use in the labeling, the FDA, with supporting data (for example, based on observed trends in postmarket adverse event reports,) could later choose to require a specific contraindication for use in cardiac ablation procedures. We plan to seek FDA clearance or approval for labeling that includes ablation procedures but we cannot assure you that the FDA will grant such clearance or approval for our Sensei system and related catheters for use in such procedures. In 2012, the FDA cleared our Magellan Robotic System for use to facilitate navigation to anatomical targets in the peripheral vasculature. Our FDA cleared labeling does not further specify the scope of the targets within the peripheral vasculature that are encompassed in the 510(k) clearance. FDA could disagree with our interpretation of the scope of this clearance. If the FDA concludes that our promotional materials exceed the scope of this clearance, the agency may retroactively require us to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA also can require us to cease marketing for any claims beyond the scope of the clearance and we are subject to the administrative or judicial sanctions described below. In February 2014, the FDA cleared our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter for use to facilitate navigation to anatomical targets in the peripheral vasculature. In August 2014, the FDA cleared our Sensei X2 System and Magellan Transport System for sale in the U.S. The PMA Approval Process. A PMA must be submitted if a device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process. The PMA process is generally more costly and time consuming than the 510(k) process. A PMA must be supported by extensive data (including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, and clinical data), manufacturing information and proposed labeling to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. After a premarket approval application is sufficiently complete, the FDA will accept the application and begin an in-depth review of the submitted information. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. FDA may also convene an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA to review and evaluate the application 29 Table of Contents and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. The panel’s recommendation is given great weight, but is not dispositive of the agency’s decision. Prior to approving the PMA, the FDA will conduct an inspection of the manufacturing facilities and a number of the clinical sites where the supporting study was conducted. The facility inspection evaluates compliance with the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which impose elaborate testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures in the manufacturing process. FDA has committed to review most PMAs within 180 days where an advisory panel is not required and within 320 days where an advisory panel is required, but the review clock may be stopped due to requests for additional information. A decision may take significantly longer and approval is never assured. The FDA may approve the PMA with post approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. Even after approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification to the device, its labeling or its manufacturing process. Supplements to a PMA often require the submission of the same type of information required for an original PMA, except that the supplement is generally limited to that information needed to support the proposed change from the product covered by the original PMA. Clinical Trials. Clinical trials are generally required to support a PMA application and are sometimes required for 510(k) clearance. Such trials, if conducted in the United States, generally require an investigational device exemption application, or IDE, approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients and study sites, unless the product is deemed an non-significant risk device eligible for more abbreviated IDE requirements. Clinical trials are subject to extensive monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Clinical trials must be conducted under the oversight of an institutional review board, or IRB, for the relevant clinical trial sites and must comply with FDA regulations, including but not limited to those relating to good clinical practices. To conduct a clinical trial, we also are required to obtain the patients’ informed consent that complies with FDA requirements, state and federal privacy regulations and human subject protection regulations. We, the FDA or the IRB could suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. Additionally, we may decide at any time, for business or other reasons, to terminate a study. Even if a trial is completed, the results of clinical testing may not adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device, may be equivocal, or may otherwise not be sufficient to obtain FDA clearance or approval to market the product in the U.S. Following completion of a study, we would need to collect, analyze and present the data in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either a 510(k) premarket notification or a PMA. In addition, FDA may perform a BiMo inspection of a study and if it finds deficiencies, we will need to expand resources to correct those deficiencies, which may delay clearance or approval or the deficiencies may be so great that FDA could refuse to accept all or part of our data or trigger enforcement action. We have received approval of an IDE application to investigate the use of our Sensei system and Artisan family of catheters in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in a clinical study designed to support the expansion of our current labeling in the U.S. beyond mapping. The study was planned to involve approximately 300 patients and involves the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We enrolled our first patient in May 2010 and approximately 50 patients were enrolled as of January 2013. A proposed modification to the study protocol was submitted to FDA for review in April 2013 to reduce the required sample size. The modified study, which plans to enroll a minimum of 125 additional subjects, was approved by the FDA in August 2013 and approximately three-fourths of the targeted number of additional subjects have been enrolled to date. The study includes a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. Pervasive and Continuing Regulation. After a device is placed on the market, numerous FDA regulatory requirements apply. These include: • product listing and establishment registration (with the payment of associated user fees), which helps facilitate FDA inspections and other regulatory action; 30 Table of Contents • Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which requires manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the development and manufacturing process; • labeling regulations and various statutory provisions, which prohibit false or misleading labeling as well as the promotion of products for uncleared, unapproved or off-label uses or indications; • clearance of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in intended use of cleared devices; • approval of product modifications that affect the safety or effectiveness of approved devices; • medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers comply with FDA requirements to report if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or a similar device were to recur; • post-approval restrictions or conditions, including post-approval study commitments; • post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device; • the FDA’s recall authority, whereby it can ask, or under certain conditions order, device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of governing laws and regulations; • regulations pertaining to voluntary recalls; and • reporting to FDA of corrections or removals. Advertising and promotion of medical devices, in addition to being regulated by the FDA and U.S. Department of Justice, are also regulated by the Federal Trade Commission and by state regulatory and enforcement authorities. Recently, promotional activities for FDA-regulated products of other companies have been the subject of enforcement action brought under healthcare reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. In addition, under the federal Lanham Act and similar state laws, competitors and others can initiate litigation relating to advertising claims. Accordingly, we may not market or promote our Magellan and Sensei systems for any off-label use. For example, FDA has taken the position that we are not permitted to promote our Sensei system in the United States for use with any other mapping catheter other than the two specified in our 510(k) clearance, use with any ablation catheters, or in any other procedure such as ablation procedures. The FDA has specifically indicated that the commercial distribution of these devices for use in ablation procedures will require us to obtain a new 510(k) clearance or, more likely, PMA approval with significant clinical data. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, as described below. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Furthermore, our products could be subject to voluntary recall if we or the FDA determine, for any reason, that our products pose a risk of injury or are otherwise defective. Moreover, the FDA can order a mandatory recall if there is a reasonable probability that our device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of some of our subcontractors. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with FDA’s QSR, and International Standards Organization, or ISO, regulations for the manufacture of 31 Table of Contents our products and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain clearance or approval. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, enforcement actions. We underwent an FDA inspection, which employed the Quality System Inspection Technique, or QSIT, in 2014 and received one inspectional observation. We received the establishment inspect report (EIR) from the FDA on January 26, 2015 after the agency closed the inspection per CFR 20.64. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown problems with our robotic systems, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of increasing severity or frequency, whether resulting from the use of the device within the scope of its clearance or off-label by a physician in the practice of medicine, or observations found during a future inspection, could result in enforcement action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. If the FDA were to find that we are not operating in compliance with applicable regulations, we could be subject to enforcement action by FDA and/or the U.S. Department of Justice, which may include one or more of the following administrative or judicial sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; • customer notifications or mandatory plans for product repair, product replacement, or refunds; • recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our submissions seeking 510(k) clearance, investigational device exemptions (IDE) to perform clinical studies or premarket approval of new products or modified products; • operating restrictions; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or IDE/PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval or issue export documentation for our products; • import holds; or • criminal prosecution. Foreign Regulation In order for us to market our products in other countries, we must comply with extensive safety and quality regulations in other countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, clearance, or grant of CE Certificates of Conformity and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Failure to obtain regulatory approval, clearance, or CE Certificates of Conformity (or equivalent) in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products may harm our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. The primary regulatory environment in Europe is that of the European Economic Area, or EEA, which is comprised of the 28 Member States of the European Union, or EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. In the EEA, our devices are required to comply with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the EU Medical Devices Directive (applicable in the non-EU EEA Member States via the Agreement on the European Economic Area). We are also required to ensure compliance with the relevant quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive. Compliance with these requirements entitles us to affix the CE mark to our medical devices, without which they cannot be commercialized. To demonstrate compliance with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I of the Medical Devices Directive obtain the right to affix the CE mark to our medical devices, 32 Table of Contents and thus be permitted to place our medical devices, and/or put them into service, on the EEA market, we must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification. With the exception of low risk medical devices (Class I devices with no measuring function and which are not sterile), in relation to which the manufacturer may issue an EC Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the Essential Requirements laid down in the Medical Devices Directive, a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a Notified Body. This is an organization designated by the competent authorities of an EEA country to conduct conformity assessments. Depending on the relevant conformity assessment procedure, the Notified Body would typically audit and examine products’ Technical File and the quality system for the manufacture, design and final inspection of our devices before issuing a CE Certificate of Conformity. This Certificate demonstrates substantive compliance with the relevant Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I of the Medical Devices Directive or the relevant quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Directive and constitutes the basis for manufacturers to issue their mandatory Declaration of Conformity. Companies compliant with ISO requirements such as “EN ISO 13485: 2012 Medical devices — Quality management systems — Requirements for regulatory purposes” benefit from a presumption of conformity with the relevant quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive. The Notified Body issues a CE Certificate of Conformity following successful completion of a conformity assessment procedure conducted in relation to the medical device and its manufacturer and their conformity with the Essential Requirements and quality system requirements. This Certificate entitles the manufacturer to affix the CE mark to its medical devices after having prepared and signed a related EC Declaration of Conformity. In September 2006, we received CE Certificate of Conformity from our Notified Body permitting us issue a Declaration of Conformity, affix the CE mark and market our Sensei system in the EEA. In May 2007, we received a CE Certificate of Conformity for our Artisan Control Catheter which allows us to issue a Declaration of Conformity, affix the CE mark to market our system for ablation procedures and to market it in the EEA. In February 2013, our Notified Body issued a further CE Certificate of Conformity for our Artisan Extend Control Catheter. In July 2011, following the drawing up of our Declaration of Conformity we affixed the CE mark for sale of our Magellan Robotic System after having received a CE Certificate of Conformity from our Notified Body and, in October 2011, we received another CE Certificate of Conformity permitting us to draw up a Declaration of Conformity and affix the CE mark to our Magellan Robotic Catheter and related accessories. In 2014, we received a CE Mark for the marketing of our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter. If we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new devices, we will need to notify our Notified Body and go through a conformity assessment procedure before having the right to affix the CE mark to such products. We will be subject to regulatory audits, currently conducted biannually, in order to maintain any CE Certificates of Conformity that have been issued by our Notified Body. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain CE Certificates of Conformity for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality, safety and efficacy requirements necessary to maintain the CE Certificates of Conformity that we have already received. If we are unable to maintain our existing CE Certificates of Conformity for our products, we will no longer be able to affix the CE mark to them and sell our products in EEA countries. We will evaluate regulatory approval in other foreign countries on an opportunistic basis. Anti-Kickback Statutes and False Claims Acts In the United States, there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that generally prohibit the offer, payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration in exchange for the referral of patients or other health-related business or the prescribing or recommendation of certain products. For example, the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully offering, paying soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any healthcare item or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between medical device manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers and purchasers on the other. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including, among other things, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash and waivers of payments. Because the federal Anti-Kickback Statute’s broad language prohibits many arrangements and practices that are permissible in businesses outside of the healthcare industry, Congress and the 33 Table of Contents OIG have established statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors to protect arrangements that satisfy all of the relevant elements from prosecution or regulatory sanctions. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act clarified that a person or entity need not have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. In addition, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, any claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act, discussed in more detail below. Many states have adopted laws similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any payor, not only federal healthcare programs like Medicare and Medicaid. We are unable to predict how individual states will enforce their kickback statutes and increased enforcement may result in substantial fines, reputational risk, or administrative penalties. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or any comparable state laws, or the impact of such actions. Another trend affecting the healthcare industry is the increased use of the federal False Claims Act which imposes penalties against individuals or entities for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment of government funds that are false or fraudulent, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government, or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. The False Claims Act has been used to assert liability based on allegations including off-label promotion and violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute, including but not limited to improper grants to clinical sites or hospitals, improper use of advisory boards, inappropriate relationships with physicians, improper loans or the inappropriate provision of free equipment The False Claims Act also includes “whistleblower” or “qui tam” provisions that allow a private individual, often former employees, to bring actions for violations on behalf of the government. In recent years, the number of suits brought against manufacturers and others by private individuals has increased dramatically and resulted in settlements with the government and/or private individuals worth billions of dollars. In addition, various states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act and some states’ laws may apply more broadly to claims for items or services reimbursed regardless of payer. Federal civil False Claims Act violations may result in treble monetary damages, civil penalties of between $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false or fraudulent claim and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. There are also criminal penalties, including imprisonment and criminal fines, for making or presenting a false or fictitious or fraudulent claim to the federal government. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under the federal civil False Claims Act or any comparable state laws, or the impact of such actions. However, the costs of defending claims under the False Claims Act or any comparable state laws, as well as sanctions imposed under the False Claims Act, could significantly affect our financial performance. The OIG has the authority to exclude companies from federal healthcare program participation for numerous violations of civil and criminal statutes and must exclude for certain felony convictions. If the company is found liable under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, or a number of other healthcare statutes, such as the federal criminal false statements statute, the OIG has discretion to exclude the company. U.S. Attorneys’ offices, state attorney general offices, and other government agencies have focused their enforcement efforts a wide range of activates, including the discounting of medical devices, the provision of free equipment, the promotion of healthcare services and products and interactions with physicians, hospitals and 34 Table of Contents other healthcare organizations. We are able to predict how third parties will interpret these laws and apply the OIG guidance and may challenge our practices and promotional activities under one or more of these laws. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, which could hurt our business, our operations and financial condition. Interactions between medical device manufacturers and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians’ codes of professional conduct in the individual EEA countries. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medical devices is prohibited in the EEA. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians is also governed by the national anti-bribery laws of the EEA countries. One example is the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. This Act applies to any company incorporated in or “carrying on business” in the U.K., irrespective of where in the world the alleged bribery activity occurs. This Act could have implications for our interactions with physicians both in and outside the U.K. Violation of these laws could result in substantial fines and imprisonment. Payments made to physicians in certain EU Member States must be publically disclosed. Moreover, agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician’s employer, his/her competent professional organization, and/or the competent authorities of the individual EEA country. These requirements are provided in the national laws, industry codes, or professional codes of conduct, applicable in the EEA countries. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment. Federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act and state marketing and disclosure laws As of August 1, 2013, the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, being implemented as the Open Payments Program, requires certain medical device manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a database containing such data, and public reporting of such data. Medical device manufacturers with products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children’s Health Insurance Program are required to track and report such payments. We began tracking applicable payments and transfers of value on August 1, 2013 and began reporting payment data to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services in March 2014 and will continue to do so annually thereafter. Failure to comply with the reporting obligations may result in civil monetary penalties. Several states now require medical device manufacturers to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion or require them to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. For example, California, Connecticut and Nevada mandate implementation of corporate compliance programs, while Massachusetts and Vermont impose more detailed restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to health care providers. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation or making or using any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. In addition to creating the two new federal healthcare crimes, HIPAA, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, also establish uniform standards for certain covered entities governing the conduct of certain 35 Table of Contents electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the security and privacy of protected health information, or PHI, maintained or created by healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. Although we believe we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we expect that our customers generally will be covered entities and they may obligate us to contractually comply with certain aspects of HIPAA. While the government intended this legislation to reduce administrative expenses and burdens for the healthcare industry, to the extent we contractually agree to comply with certain provisions of HIPAA we may experience significant costs. If we fail to comply with the standards that we have agreed to contractually, we may be subject to liability for violation of related contractual obligations we have with our customers. Pursuant to the HITECH Act and its implementing regulations, to the extent we are a business associate of our covered entity customers, we will be obligated to enter into certain agreements-business associate agreements- and directly subject to the HIPAA Security Rule, Breach Notification Rule and portions of the Privacy Rule and can be directly liable to HHS for noncompliance. Our compliance with these standards may entail significant costs for us and we cannot predict the effect of increased enforcement efforts in this area. To the extent we are subject to HIPAA, noncompliance can result in civil or criminal enforcement. Even if we are not directly subject to HIPAA, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. In addition to federal regulations issued under HIPAA, many states have enacted privacy and security statutes or regulations that regulate the use and disclosure of health information, including state medical privacy laws, state breach notification laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws. In some cases, these laws are more stringent than those issued under HIPAA and are not preempted. It may be necessary to modify our planned operations and procedures to comply with applicable state laws. If we fail to comply with applicable state laws and regulations, we could be subject to additional sanctions. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act The federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997 and other similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. Recently, there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. A determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with United States or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, and result of operations or financial condition. Certificate of Need Laws In approximately two-thirds of the states, a certificate of need or similar regulatory approval is required prior to the acquisition of high-cost capital items or various types of advanced medical equipment, such as our system. At present, many of the states in which we expect to sell our system have laws that require institutions located in those states to obtain a certificate of need in connection with the purchase of our system, and we anticipate that some of our purchase orders may be conditioned upon our customer’s receipt of necessary certificate of need approval. Certificate of need laws were enacted to contain rising healthcare costs, prevent the unnecessary duplication of health resources, and increase patient access for health services. In practice, certificate of need laws have prevented hospitals and other providers who have been unable to obtain a certificate of need from acquiring new equipment or offering new services. A further increase in the number of states 36 Table of Contents regulating our business through certificate of need or similar programs could adversely affect us. Moreover, some states may have additional requirements. For example, we understand that California’s certificate of need law also incorporates seismic safety requirements which must be met before a hospital can acquire our system. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had 169 employees, 29 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 18 in regulatory, clinical affairs and quality activities, 44 in sales and marketing activities, 10 in customer service and support, 46 in manufacturing and 22 in general administrative and accounting activities. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Additional Information Hansen Medical, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 2002 under the name AutoCath, Inc. We file reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy or information statements. Those reports and statements as well as all amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (1) are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, (2) are available at the SEC’s internet site (www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and (3) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with, or furnishing to, the SEC. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our website address is www.hansenmedical.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference nor otherwise included in this report. Our principal executive offices are located at 800 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043 and our telephone number is (650) 404-5800. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred substantial losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses through at least the next year, we may not be able to raise additional financing to fund future losses. We have experienced substantial net losses since our inception in late 2002 and expect such losses to continue through at least the year ending December 31, 2015 as we continue to commercialize our technologies and develop new applications and technologies. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $406.9 million. We have funded our operations to date principally from the sale of our securities, the issuance of debt and through partnering and the licensing of intellectual property. As of December 31, 2014, our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash total was $31.9 million. We incurred an operating loss of $54.2 million and had negative cash flows from operations of $42.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. In addition, we are also subject to minimum liquidity requirements under our existing borrowing arrangement with White Oak Global Advisors, LLC that requires us to maintain $15.0 million in liquidity, consisting of at least $13.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments, of which $5.0 million is required to be restricted subject to lenders’ control, and up to $2.0 million in certain accounts receivable. In order to meet our long-term anticipated cash requirements, we need to obtain additional financing or adopt additional cost-cutting measures. There can be no assurance, however, that such a financing will be successfully completed on terms acceptable to us or that we can implement cost cutting measures sufficient to extend our cash and liquidity. We may seek additional financing at any time by selling additional equity or debt securities, licensing core or non-core intellectual property assets, entering into future research and development funding arrangements, refinancing or restructuring existing debt arrangements, or entering into a credit facility. If we seek 37 Table of Contents additional funding in the future by selling additional equity or debt securities or entering into debt or credit facilities, such additional funding may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, may contain unfavorable terms or may not be available on any terms. Conditions in the global financial and credit markets may limit our ability to raise additional funds. We cannot guarantee that future equity or debt financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, even if financing is available, the cost to us may be significantly higher than in the past. Our ability to access the capital markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted by general market conditions at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. This could leave us without adequate financial resources to fund our operations as presently conducted or as we plan to conduct them in the future. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to adopt additional cost-cutting measures, including additional reductions in our work force, reducing the scope of, delaying or eliminating some or all of our planned research, development and commercialization activities and/or reducing marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products. If we seek additional funding through partnering and licensing transactions, we could be required to license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves or on terms that are less attractive than they might otherwise be. Any of these factors could materially harm our business and may negatively impact our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. Because we may not be successful in significantly increasing sales of our products, the extent of our future losses and the timing of achieving sustained profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve sustained profitable operations. If we require more time than we expect to generate significant revenue and achieve sustained profitability, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we achieve significant revenues, we may never become profitable on a sustained basis. Our efforts to commercialize our Magellan Robotic System and Sensei system may encounter obstacles and delays which could significantly harm our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to generate revenues depends upon the successful commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System and Sensei system. These commercialization efforts may not succeed for a number of reasons, including those set forth in this Item 1A and the following: • our systems may not be accepted by physicians or hospitals; • we may not be able to sell our systems and associated catheters in volumes and at prices that allow us to meet the revenue targets necessary to generate revenue necessary to achieve profitability; • the use of our systems by customers may not achieve more predictable procedure times, enable more complex cases or result in other physician or clinical benefits that we believe will drive adoption of our products; • we, or the investigators of our products, may not be able to generate sufficient information regarding outcomes with our systems to satisfy potential purchasers; • the availability and perceived advantages of alternative treatments may hinder acceptance of our systems; • our assumptions regarding the economic value proposition of our systems for hospitals, including the reimbursement rates that hospitals may achieve for procedures using our systems, may not be sufficiently accurate to drive adoption in acceptable quantities; • any rapid technological change may make our products obsolete; • we may not be able to manufacture our systems or catheters in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; 38 Table of Contents • we may not have adequate financial or other resources to complete the commercialization of our systems or the development of new products; and • we may not obtain regulatory clearance for the applications for which many physicians wish to use our systems. If we are not successful in the commercialization of our Sensei system for uses other than for mapping in EP procedures or the development and commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System, we may never achieve sustained profitability and may be forced to cease operations. Successful commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System is subject to manufacturing, marketing, sales and customer service risks which could significantly harm our ability to generate revenue. We have limited experienced in manufacturing our Magellan Robotic System, Magellan Robotic Catheters and related accessories in commercial quantities and we may encounter unexpected manufacturing problems when scaling up the production of these new products. While we have experience marketing and selling the Sensei system following its initial regulatory approvals in 2007, the marketing and sales effort for our Magellan Robotic System involves different customers, value propositions and purchasing processes, and we are only beginning to gain experience in marketing and selling our Magellan Robotic System. Our Magellan Robotic System is a novel device, and hospitals are traditionally slow to adopt new products and treatment practices. Our Magellan Robotic System is an expensive capital equipment purchase which slows the sales process. Since the Magellan Robotic System has only recently been commercially introduced, our Magellan Robotic System has limited product and brand recognition. Furthermore, we do not believe hospitals will purchase our products unless the physicians at those hospitals express a strong desire to use our products and we cannot predict whether or not they will do so in sufficient numbers. The ability to obtain market acceptance of a new product such as the Magellan Robotic System is highly variable and subject to many risks. As a result, our commercialization plans may be delayed, incomplete or unsuccessful. While we have prepared new training materials specifically for our Magellan Robotic System, these materials have not been used extensively and only a limited number of clinical cases have been performed with our Magellan Robotic System. As a result, with greater physician experience with our Magellan Robotic System, we may identify areas where further training is required. In addition, commercial introduction of new products sometimes results in the identification of latent or new product defects or quality issues that were not evident in the testing of the products. If we encounter any of these new product introduction issues with our Magellan Robotic System, our financial condition, results of operations and business could be adversely impacted. We may not be able to further develop our Magellan Robotic System as planned, which could significantly harm our ability to achieve future regulatory approvals and market acceptance. We intend to further develop our Magellan Robotic System, including our Magellan Robotic Catheters and related accessories. Due to the advanced electrical, mechanical, and software capabilities of this new robotic platform, we may encounter challenges in designing, engineering and manufacturing future enhancements to the platform, which may lead to compatibility obstacles with operating room and catheter laboratory layouts, equipment quality or performance issues, unmet customer expectations regarding features or functionality or other defects in future versions of the platform. Any such difficulties could result in delays in our submissions to regulatory agencies, delays in achieving or the failure to achieve additional regulatory approvals or clearances for enhancements to the system, lack of physician adoption of our system, higher than expected service claims, litigation and negative press coverage, which may damage our business. If we are unable to manufacture our systems and catheters in a manner that yields sufficient gross margins, we will be unable to achieve profitable commercialization. We do not have significant experience in manufacturing, assembling or testing our current products on a commercial scale. Our products contain expensive materials and are expensive to manufacture, particularly in 39 Table of Contents limited quantities. In addition to increasing sales to increase manufacturing overhead absorption, we need to reduce the variable manufacturing costs of our catheters in order to achieve our operational and financial goals. We face challenges in order to produce disposable catheters effectively, to appropriately phase in new products and designs, to efficiently utilize our manufacturing facility and to achieve planned manufacturing cost reductions. If we are unable to effectively manage these issues, our costs of producing our products will negatively affect our gross margins which will negatively impact our business. We are a company with a limited history of operations, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We are a medical device company with a limited operating history and first recognized revenues in the second quarter of 2007. We have been engaged in research and product development since our inception in late 2002. Our Sensei system, received FDA, clearance in May 2007 and our corresponding disposable Artisan Control Catheter and Artisan Extend Control Catheter received FDA clearance in May 2007 and August 2012, respectively, for commercialization to facilitate manipulation, positioning and control of certain mapping catheters during EP procedures. We also received a CE Mark in Europe for our Sensei system in September 2006, for our Artisan Control Catheter in May 2007, for our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011, for our Magellan Robotic Catheter in October 2011, for our Artisan Extend Control Catheter in December 2012, and for our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter in November 2014. We received FDA clearance for the commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System including the catheter and accessories in June 2012 and we received FDA clearance for the marketing of our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter in February 2014, and we have also received regulatory approvals for our Sensei system and/or our Magellan Robotic System in several countries outside of the U.S, including Canada. Our Canadian license for the Sensei system, which was issued in December 2011, is conditioned upon our providing yearly safety and effectiveness data for a period of three years for post-market use of the system, including marketing history, a clinical literature review, and up-to-date data on our randomized clinical study. Failure to provide these reports may result in suspension of our license. The future success of our business will depend on our ability to design and obtain regulatory approval for new products, manufacture and assemble our current and future products in sufficient quantities in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and at lower costs, increase product sales and successfully support and service our products, all of which we may be unable to do. We have a limited history of operations upon which you can evaluate our business and our operating expenses have fluctuated significantly. We have only recently introduced our Magellan Robotic System and do not have experience selling different systems for different applications. Our lack of a significant operating history also limits your ability to make a comparative evaluation of us, our products and our prospects. If we are unable to successfully operate our business, our business and financial condition will be harmed. We have a debt facility with White Oak Global Advisors, LLC that requires us to meet certain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. In August 2013, we entered into an amended and restated $33.0 million loan and security agreement with White Oak Global Advisors, LLC, or White Oak, as a lender and as collateral agent for the lenders under the loan agreement. We are obligated to pay only interest on the loan until the loan’s maturity date, which is December 30, 2017. At our option, we may prepay all or a portion of the outstanding principal balance, subject to paying a prepayment fee of 3.5% of the principal amount of the loan prepaid if our prepayment is made on or before the third anniversary of the funding of the loan or 1.0% of the principal amount of the loan prepaid if our prepayment is made after the fourth anniversary of the funding of the loan. We are also required to make mandatory prepayments upon certain events of loss and certain dispositions of our assets as described in the loan agreement. The loan agreement contains customary events of default, including if we fail to make a payment on its due date, fail to perform specified obligations, fail to comply with certain covenants in the loan agreement, 40 Table of Contents experience a material adverse change, or becomes insolvent. We have granted the lenders a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets, excluding any of our intellectual property, now owned or hereafter acquired, and all proceeds and products thereof. Two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, AorTx, Inc. and Hansen Medical International, Inc., have guaranteed our obligations under the loan and have granted first priority security interests in their assets, excluding any of their intellectual property, to secure their guarantee obligations. Under the loan agreement, neither we nor Aortx, Inc. and Hansen Medical International, Inc. may grant a lien on any intellectual property to third parties. We have also pledged to the lenders shares of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries as collateral for the loan. We are also subject to certain affirmative and negative covenants, and also to minimum liquidity requirements which require us to maintain $15.0 million in liquidity, consisting of at least $13.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments of which $5.0 million of which shall be restricted funds subject to lenders’ control, and up to $2.0 million in certain accounts receivable. We are subject to limitations on our ability to: undergo certain change of control events; convey, sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of our assets; create, incur, assume, or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; grant liens; pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; make loans, acquisitions, or certain investments; create subsidiaries or enter into joint ventures; repurchase certain equity interests; make payments on any subordinated debt; make material changes to our core business or the core business of any of our subsidiaries; enter into transactions with any of our affiliates outside of the ordinary course of business; or permit our subsidiaries to do the same. We are also required to make mandatory prepayments upon certain events of loss and certain dispositions of our assets described in the amended loan agreement. As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. In the event we were to violate any covenants or if White Oak believes that we have violated any covenants, and such violations are not cured pursuant to the terms of the loan and security agreement, we would be in default under the loan and security agreement, which would entitle White Oak to exercise their remedies, including the right to accelerate the debt, upon which we may be required to repay all amounts then outstanding under the loan and security agreement. Complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy. If Philips is unable to develop or license new products or applications for the FOSSL technology, or such products are not commercially viable, we may not realize the full benefits of our agreements with Philips which would harm our results of operations and could delay and or impair our ability to successfully commercialize that technology. The realization of the full potential benefits of our agreements with Philips, including the receipt of any of the up to $78.0 million in future payments associated with the successful commercialization by Philips or its collaborators of products containing the FOSSL technology, requires the development of new products and applications of technology that are subject to design, engineering and manufacturing challenges, potential safety and regulatory issues that could delay, suspend or terminate clinical studies, regulatory approvals or sales, and our reliance on third parties to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, market and sell products containing FOSSL technology. Approximately two-thirds of the up to $78.0 million of potential future payments could arise from Philips’ sublicensing the FOSSL technology, but Philips has no obligations to do so. Under certain circumstances, we have the right to reacquire certain of the rights licensed to Philips for an amount which in the aggregate would be greater than the upfront payment amounts received by us from Philips in connection with the agreements related to the FOSSL technology, however, there can be no assurance that we would have the capital resources to exercise such rights or that we could find another commercial partner or develop commercially such technologies. In addition, Philips’ sales of products containing the FOSSL technology could be sufficient to result in our not having any rights to reacquire any of the rights licensed to Philips, yet too low to result in any royalty payments to us. If any of these events occurs, we would be unable to realize the full financial benefits of our agreements with Philips and may be delayed or unable to monetize the FOSSL technology in other areas, harming our research and development efforts and adversely affecting our business. 41 Table of Contents We may be unable to complete our clinical trial for the treatment of atrial fibrillation or other future trials, or we may experience significant delays in completing our clinical trials, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our Sensei system for expanded uses and impair our financial position. We have received approval of an IDE application to investigate the use of our Sensei system and Artisan Control and Artisan Extend catheters in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in a clinical study designed to support the expansion of our current labeling in the U.S. beyond mapping. The study was planned to involve approximately 300 patients and involves the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We enrolled our first patient in May 2010 and approximately 50 patients were enrolled as of January 2013. A proposed modification to the study protocol was submitted to FDA for review in January 2013, to change the study design and reduce the required sample size. The modified study, which plans to enroll a minimum of 125 additional subjects, was approved by the FDA in August 2013 and approximately three-fourths of the target number of additional subjects have been enrolled to date. The study includes a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. Enrollment of additional patients in the trial could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • obtaining additional IRB approval to conduct the trial at prospective sites; and • obtaining sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the willingness of patients to participate in a clinical trial, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. In addition, the completion of the trial, and any future clinical trials, could be delayed, suspended or terminated for several reasons, including: • ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our preclinical results or clinical trial or requests for supplemental information with respect to our preclinical results or clinical trial results; • our failure or inability to conduct the clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • sites participating in the trial may drop out of the trial, which may require us to engage new sites or petition the FDA for an expansion of the number of sites that are permitted to be involved in the trial; • patients may not enroll in, remain in or complete the clinical trial at the rates we expect; • patients in either the control or test arm of the trial may experience serious adverse events or side effects during the trial, which, whether or not related to our products, could cause the FDA or other regulatory authorities to place the clinical trial on hold; and • clinical investigators may not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices. If our clinical trials are delayed it will take us longer to commercialize a product for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and generate revenues from such product. Moreover, our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we complete our trial for the treatment of atrial fibrillation or other clinical trials, these trials may not produce results that are sufficient to support approval of a PMA or 510(k) application. We will consider our Sensei system to be effective for the treatment of atrial fibrillation if the trial for the treatment of atrial fibrillation meets target performance goals based upon the manual control of the NaviStar Thermocool catheter, but there is a risk that, even if we achieve our trial endpoints, the FDA may not approve our Sensei system for use in the treatment of atrial fibrillation. In addition, there is a risk that the FDA may require us 42 Table of Contents to conduct a larger or longer clinical trial, submit additional follow-up data, or engage in other costly and time consuming activities that may delay the FDA’s clearance or approval of the Sensei system for use in atrial fibrillation. Although we plan to file a 510(k) application based on data from our trial for the use of Sensei system in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, the FDA may require us to file a premarket approval, or PMA, which is more time consuming and costly. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support a PMA or 510(k) application, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, or any other intended treatment, and generate revenue or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. We have incurred substantial management and employee turnover and we may lose additional key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel needed for us to operate our business effectively. Our management team includes several members hired since January 2014, including our new Chief Executive Officer who joined us in May 2014. In addition, the position of Chief Financial Officer is currently held on an interim basis. If we are unable to recruit and retain qualified individuals, including retaining our new Chief Executive Officer and hiring a full-time Chief Financial Officer, our product development and commercialization efforts could be materially delayed or be unsuccessful. We have periodically reduced our work force and we may undertake additional actions to reduce our work force in the future. These reductions in force may make it more difficult to retain and attract the qualified personnel required, placing a significant strain on our management. Accordingly, retaining such personnel and recruiting necessary new employees in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled management and personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities and our business will be harmed. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any members of our senior management. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. The loss of any of these persons could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the development and introduction of our products, and could require the remaining management members to direct immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Credit, financial market and general economic conditions could delay or prevent potential customers from purchasing our products, which would adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operation. The sale of our systems often represents a significant capital purchase for our customers and many customers finance their purchase of our systems through a credit facility or other financing. If prospective customers that need to finance their capital purchases are not able to access the credit or capital markets on terms that they consider acceptable, they may decide to postpone or cancel a potential purchase of one of our systems. Potential customers with limited capital budgets may decide to spend those dollars on other technologies rather than on our products. Also, even customers with sufficient financial resources to make such purchases without resorting to the credit and capital markets may be less likely to make capital purchases during periods when they view the overall economic conditions unfavorably or with uncertainty. Many potential customers have delayed making a decision to purchase a Sensei system, which has significantly impacted our sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain market acceptance for our products’ value proposition, potential customers may not make these significant capital purchases and our sales, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. 43 Table of Contents We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience and capabilities, which could impair our ability to achieve sustained profitability. In the United States, we market our systems and catheters through a direct sales force of regional sales employees, supported by clinical sales representatives who provide training, clinical support and other services to our customers. Our direct sales force competes against the experienced and well-funded sales organizations of our competitors. Our revenues will depend largely on the effectiveness of our sales force. We face significant challenges and risks related to our direct sales force and the marketing of our current and future products, including, among others: • the ability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of hospitals to purchase our system and catheters or physicians to use our system and catheters; • our ability to retain, properly motivate, recruit and train adequate numbers of qualified sales and marketing personnel; • our ability to successfully integrate new management, including our Chief Executive Officer; • the costs associated with an independent sales and marketing organization, hiring, maintaining and expanding an independent sales and marketing organization; and • our ability to promote our products effectively while maintaining compliance with government regulations and labeling restrictions with respect to the healthcare industry. Outside the United States, primarily in the European Union, we are establishing a combination of a direct sales force and distributors to market, sell and support our current and future products. If we fail to select and maintain appropriate distributors, appropriately disengage from unsuccessful distributors or effectively use our distributors or sales personnel and coordinate our efforts for distribution of our systems and catheters in the European Union or if their and our sales and marketing strategies are not effective in generating sales of our system, our revenues would be adversely affected and we may never become profitable on a sustained basis. We have limited experience in manufacturing and assembling our products and may encounter problems at our manufacturing facilities or otherwise experience manufacturing delays that could result in lost revenue or diminishing margins. We do not have significant experience in manufacturing, assembling or testing our current products on a commercial scale. In addition, for our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System, we subcontract the manufacturing of major components and complete the final assembly and testing of those components in-house. We face challenges in order to produce our Sensei system and disposable catheters effectively, to appropriately phase in new products such as the Magellan Robotic System and product designs, to efficiently utilize our manufacturing facility and to achieve planned manufacturing cost reductions. These challenges include equipment design and automation, material procurement, low or variable production yields on catheters and quality control and assurance. The costs resulting from these challenges have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our gross margins and may result in significant fluctuations of gross margins from quarter to quarter. We may not successfully complete required manufacturing changes or planned improvements in manufacturing efficiency on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to satisfy demand for our systems or catheters, our ability to generate revenue could be impaired and hospitals may instead purchase, or physicians may use, our competitors’ products. Since our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System require the use of disposable Artisan catheters and Magellan Robotic Catheters, respectively, our failure to meet demand for catheters from hospitals that have purchased our systems could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and damage our commercial reputation. In addition, all of our operations are conducted at our facilities leased in Mountain View, California. We could encounter problems at these facilities, which could delay or prevent us from manufacturing, assembling or testing our products or maintaining our manufacturing capabilities or otherwise conducting operations. 44 Table of Contents Our reliance on third-party manufacturers and on suppliers, and in certain cases, a single-source supplier, could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget, and could cause harm to our business and financial condition. We depend on third-party manufacturers to produce most of the components of our systems and other current products, and have not entered into formal agreements with several of these third parties. We also depend on various third-party suppliers for various components we use in our systems and for our catheters and sheaths. For example, Force Dimension Sàrl, a single-source supplier, manufactures customized motion controllers that are a part of our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System. We also obtain the motors for our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System from a single supplier, Maxon Motor AG, from whom we purchase on a purchase order basis, and we generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. Our reliance on third parties involves a number of risks, including, among other things, the risk that: • suppliers may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in or prevent shipments of our products; • we may not be able to respond to unanticipated changes and increases in customer orders; • we may be subject to price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; • we may lose access to critical services and components, resulting in an interruption in the manufacture, assembly and shipment of our systems and other products; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; • our suppliers may wish to discontinue supplying goods or services to us; • we may not be able to find new or alternative components for our use or reconfigure our system and manufacturing processes in a timely manner if the components necessary for our system become unavailable; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. If any of these risks materialize, it could significantly increase our costs and impact our ability to meet demand for our products. In addition, if these manufacturers or suppliers stop providing us with the components or services necessary for the operation of our business, we may not be able to identify alternative sources in a timely fashion. Any transition to alternative manufacturers or suppliers or a decision to discontinue our relationship with a current manufacturer or supplier could result in operational problems, increased expenses or write-down of capitalized assets that would adversely affect operating results and could delay the shipment of, or limit our ability to provide, our products. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into agreements with new manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms on a timely basis or at all. Additionally, obtaining components from a new supplier may require qualification of a new supplier in the form of a new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities and clearance or approval of the filing before we could resume purchasing components for inclusion in our products. Any disruptions in product supply may harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction, damage our reputation and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders by our customers. We currently purchase a number of the components for our systems in foreign jurisdictions. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. 45 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain necessary FDA clearances/approvals and the CE Certificates of Conformity for our medical device products or are seen to violate any FDA or EEA regulations or guidance, or if future clearances, approvals or the delivery of CE Certificates of Conformity are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products. The process of seeking regulatory clearance, or approval (in the United States) or CE Certificates of Conformity (in the EEA) to market a medical device is expensive and time-consuming and clearance, approval and grant of CE Certificates of Conformity is never guaranteed and, even if granted or obtained, clearance, approval or CE Certificates of Conformity may be suspended, withdrawn or revoked. Staying in compliance with all of the complex FDA and EEA regulations and guidance is a time-consuming and difficult endeavor, and the government may disagree with our compliance efforts or interpretations of FDA regulations and guidance. If the FDA or the competent authorities of the EEA countries determine that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of a use which has not been cleared or approved or does not fall within the scope of the current CE mark, they could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. In May 2007, we received FDA clearance in the United States to commercialize our Sensei system and Artisan catheters only to facilitate manipulation, positioning and control, for collecting electrophysiological data within the heart atria with electro-anatomic mapping and recording systems using two specified mapping catheters. Because the FDA has determined that there is a reasonable likelihood that our Sensei system and Artisan catheters could be used by physicians for uses not encompassed by the scope of the present label and that such uses may cause harm, we are required to label these products to state that their safety and effectiveness for use with cardiac ablation catheters in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation have not been established. Accordingly, the scope of the current label may hinder our ability to successfully market and sell our EP products in the United States to a broader group of potential customers. We received FDA clearance to commercialize our Magellan Robotic System including the catheter and accessories in June 2012 and we received FDA clearance for the marketing of our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter in February 2014. Our FDA cleared labeling does not further specify the scope of the targets within the peripheral vasculature that are encompassed in the 510(k) clearance. The FDA could disagree with our interpretation of the scope of this clearance. If the FDA concludes that our promotional materials exceed the scope of this clearance, the agency may retroactively require us to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval and such uses could be subject to the same restrictions as the use of the Sensei system in cardiac ablation procedures. Our promotional materials and training methods regarding physicians must comply with FDA limitations and other applicable laws and regulations. Both our Magellan and Sensei systems are cleared by the FDA and CE marked in the EEA for defined uses. We believe that the specific procedures for which our products are marketed fall within the scope of the FDA clearances in the United States and CE marks in the EEA. The FDA and other competent authorities and agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance, approval or CE Certificates of Conformity has not been obtained. Moreover, scrutiny of such practices by the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, and other competent authorities and agencies has recently increased. In the United States, promotional activities for FDA regulated products of other companies have been the subject of enforcement action brought under healthcare reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies under the Federal False Claims Act and various other federal and state laws, as well as criminal sanctions. Administrative, civil and criminal sanctions can also be imposed in foreign countries. We will be required to seek a separate 510(k) clearance or PMA approval to market our Sensei system for uses other than those in the current label. We cannot assure you that the FDA would not impose a more burdensome level of premarket review on other intended uses or modifications to approved products. We plan to seek future approval of our Sensei system for other indications, including atrial fibrillation and other cardiac ablation procedures. We have received approval of an IDE application to investigate the use of our Artisan family of 46 Table of Contents catheters in the treatment of atrial fibrillation in a clinical study designed to support the expansion of our current labeling in the U.S. beyond mapping. The study was planned to involve approximately 300 patients and involves the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We enrolled our first patient in May 2010 and approximately 50 patients were enrolled as of January 2013. A proposed modification to the study protocol was submitted to FDA for review in April 2013. The modified study, which plans to enroll a minimum of 125 additional subjects, was approved by the FDA in August 2013 and approximately three-fourths of the targeted number of additional subjects have been enrolled to date. The study will include a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. We cannot assure the timing or potential for success of those efforts. We cannot assure you that the study will be completed at all or in a timely manner, nor that the study will be executed in a manner consistent with FDA requirements or yield sufficient data to support approval. Clinical studies are subject to FDA audits under the Bioresearch Monitoring program, and if our study execution or that of our participating sites and investigators is found to be deficient, this may result in delays in approval or could prevent approval from being obtained. Any significant violations can also result in further enforcement action, as outlined above. With regard to our Sensei system, our Magellan Robotic System, or other products, the FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance of a 510(k), or PMA approval, for many reasons, including: • our inability to demonstrate safety or effectiveness to the FDA’s satisfaction; • the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval; • the facilities of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers may not meet applicable requirements; • our failure to comply with preclinical, clinical or other regulations; • our inability to meet the FDA’s statistical requirements or changes in statistical tests or significance levels the FDA requires for approval of a medical device, including ours; and • changes in the FDA approval policies, expectations with regard to the type or amount of scientific data required or adoption of new regulations that may require additional data or additional clinical studies. Furthermore, in order to market our products outside of the United States, we will need to establish and comply with the numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding quality, safety and efficacy. We received a CE Certificate of Conformity in the EEA for our Sensei system in September 2006, for our Artisan catheters in May 2007, for our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011, for our Magellan Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan Robotic System in October 2011, for our Artisan Extend catheters in February 2013, and for our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter in November 2014. However, we may be required to go through new conformity assessment procedures with our Notified Body in the EEA in order to market our products for any additional uses. Regulatory approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity may be difficult and costly to obtain, or may not be granted or obtained at all. If we are unable to maintain our regulatory clearances and CE Certificates of Conformity and obtain future clearances and CE Certificates of Conformity for our products and be seen to be in full compliance with the relevant FDA regulations and guidance, our financial condition and cash flow may be adversely affected, and our ability to grow domestically and internationally may be limited. If the FDA or U.S. Department of Justice takes the position that we are not marketing or training physicians in a manner consistent with FDA regulations, the FDA and the competent authorities in the EEA countries could require us to stop promoting our products for certain procedures until we obtain FDA clearance or approval or a specific CE Certificate of Conformity for them and/or could require us to initiate corrective actions that could include issuing corrective advertising. In addition, the FDA and the competent authorities in the EEA countries could require us to generate and submit significant quality, safety and efficacy data to support use in those procedures for which the agency or the competent authorities of the EEA countries require clearance, approval or a specific CE Certificate of Conformity. If we are perceived not to be in compliance with all of the governmental restrictions, we could be subject to various enforcement measures, including investigations, administrative 47 Table of Contents proceedings and country, federal and state court litigation, which would likely be costly to defend and harmful to our business. If the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, or another competent authority ultimately concludes we are not in compliance with such restrictions, we could be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, exclusion, injunctions, significant monetary and punitive penalties and criminal sanctions, any or all of which would be harmful to our business and in certain instances may cause us to have to cease operations. If physicians and hospitals do not believe that our Sensei system and Artisan catheters are a viable alternative to existing mapping technologies used in atrial fibrillation and other cardiac ablation procedures, or if they do not believe that our Magellan Robotic System and Magellan Robotic Catheters are a viable alternative for vascular diseases, they may choose not to use our products. We believe that physicians will not use, and hospitals will not purchase, our systems unless they determine that they provide a safe and effective alternative to existing treatments. Since we have received FDA clearance to market our Sensei system and disposable Artisan catheters only for guiding catheters to map the heart anatomy, we will not be able to label or promote these products, or train physicians, for use in guiding catheters for cardiac ablation until such clearance or approval is obtained. Currently, there is only limited clinical data on our Sensei system with which to assess its safety and efficacy in any procedure, including atrial fibrillation and other cardiac ablation procedures. A number of studies have been published since the commercial launch of our Sensei system in 2007 on the efficacy, safety and efficiency of our products, especially by comparison to manual techniques. While we believe many of those studies have demonstrated the benefits of our products, some of these studies have been cited by our competitors to portray our products in an unfavorable light. A number of additional studies are underway both in the United States and Europe assessing the clinical experience with our products and continuing to compare usability and success of treatment between procedures performed with our Sensei system and manual technique. If these studies, or other clinical studies performed by us or others, or clinical experience indicate that procedures with our Sensei system or the type of procedures that can be performed with the Sensei system are not effective or safe for such uses, physicians may choose not to use our Sensei system. Reluctance by physicians to use our Sensei system or to perform procedures enabled by the Sensei system would harm sales. Furthermore, we commenced the commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System and Magellan Robotic Catheters for the treatment of vascular diseases, but there is very little clinical data for the system’s safety and efficacy. Reluctance by physicians to use our Magellan Robotic System or to perform procedures enabled by the Magellan Robotic System would harm these sales. Further, unsatisfactory patient outcomes or patient injury in either of our major products could cause negative publicity for our products, particularly in the early phases of product introduction. In addition, physicians may be slow to adopt our products if they perceive liability risks arising from the use of these new products. It is also possible that as our products become more widely used, latent or other defects could be identified, creating negative publicity and liability problems for us, thereby adversely affecting demand for our products. If physicians do not adopt the use of our products in their practices, we likely will not become profitable on a sustained basis and our business will be harmed. In addition, our research and development efforts and our marketing strategy depend heavily on obtaining support and collaboration from highly regarded physicians at leading hospitals. If we are unable to gain or maintain such support and collaboration, our ability to market our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System and, as a result, our business and results of operations, could be harmed. We expect to derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of our Sensei system, our Magellan Robotic System and the associated catheters and accessories. If hospitals do not purchase our systems, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our operations. Our initial commercial offering consisted primarily of two products, our Sensei system and our corresponding disposable Artisan catheters. The Sensei system has been supplemented by an optional CoHesion Module. In order for us to achieve sales, hospitals must purchase our Sensei system and Artisan catheters. We also received the CE Mark in Europe for our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011 and for the Magellan 48 Table of Contents Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan Robotic System in October 2011. We received FDA clearance to commercialize our Magellan Robotic System including the catheter and accessories in June 2012 and we received FDA clearance for the marketing of our Magellan 6Fr Robotic Catheter in February 2014. If hospitals do not widely adopt our Sensei system or Magellan Robotic System, or if they decide that our systems are too expensive to purchase or operate, we may never achieve significant revenue or become profitable. Such a failure to adequately sell our Sensei system or Magellan Robotic System would have a materially detrimental impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The training required for physicians to use our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System could reduce the market acceptance of our system and reduce our revenue. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to ensure that there are a sufficient number of physicians familiar with, trained on and proficient in the use of our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System. Convincing physicians to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our systems is challenging, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. It is our policy to train U.S. physicians to only insert, navigate, map and remove catheters using our Sensei system. Physicians must obtain training elsewhere to learn how to ablate cardiac tissue to treat atrial fibrillation, which is an off-label procedure with our Sensei system. This training may be provided in the U.S. by third parties, such as hospitals and universities and through independent peer-to-peer training among doctors. We cannot assure you that a sufficient number of U.S. physicians will become aware of training programs or that physicians will dedicate the time, funds and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our system for these off-label procedures. Additionally, we will have no control over the quality of these training programs. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may result in unsatisfactory outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and sales of our products. Furthermore, our inability to educate and train U.S. physicians to use our Sensei system for cardiac ablation procedures may lead to inadequate demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We monitor our training to ensure that off-label use is not promoted or enabled. However, from time to time, we may sponsor third party training. There is a risk that independent peer-to-peer interaction between physicians and other third party training may include discussion or observation of off-label procedures because most procedures performed to date using the Sensei system involve both mapping and cardiac ablation. If any such activities are attributed to us, the FDA or other governmental entities could conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion of our products, which could subject us to significant liability. We expect to continue to experience extended and variable sales cycles, which could cause significant variability in our results of operations for any given quarter. Our systems have a lengthy sales cycle because they involve a relatively expensive capital equipment purchase, which generally requires the approval of senior management at hospitals, inclusion in the hospitals’ budget process for capital expenditures and, in some instances, a certificate of need from the state or other regulatory clearance. We continue to estimate that this sales cycle may take between six and 18 months, though we have seen sales cycles lengthen towards the longer end of this range as many potential customers have postponed purchase decisions. Additionally, the majority of our revenue is often shipped in the last weeks of a given quarter. Any disruption in our supply chain during those critical weeks or an inability to fulfill our deliverables during that compressed time frame could significantly impact the timing of our ability to recognize revenue on those items. These factors have contributed in the past and may contribute in the future to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly in the near term and during any other periods in which our sales volume is relatively low. As a result, in future quarters our operating results could differ from our announcements of guidance regarding future operating or financial results or may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. These fluctuations also 49 Table of Contents mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. In addition, the introduction of new products such as our Magellan Robotic System and Magellan Robotic Catheters could adversely impact our sales cycle, as customers take additional time to assess the benefits of new investments in capital products. The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management’s attention and harm our reputation and business. Our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. Moreover, the FDA has expressed concerns regarding the safety and efficacy of our Sensei system for ablation and other therapeutic indications, including for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and has specifically instructed that our products be labeled to inform our customers that the safety and effectiveness of our technology for use with cardiac ablation catheters in the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, including for atrial fibrillation, have not been established. We presently believe that to date, all of the procedures in which our Sensei system has been used in the United States have included off-label uses such as cardiac ablation, for which our Sensei system and Artisan catheters have not been cleared by the FDA and which therefore could increase the risk of product liability claims. The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive litigation over product liability claims. We may be subject to claims by consumers, healthcare providers, third-party payors or others selling our products if the use of our products were to cause, or merely appear to cause, injury or death. Any weakness in training and services associated with our products may also result in product liability lawsuits. Although we maintain clinical trial liability and product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain our existing product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or adequate amounts. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome could result in: • decreased demand for our products; • injury to our reputation; • diversion of management’s attention; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • significant costs of related litigation; • payment of substantial monetary awards to patients; • product recalls or market withdrawals; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize our products under development. Our products and related technologies can be applied in different applications, and we may fail to focus on the most profitable areas or we may be unable to address successfully financial and technology risks associated with new applications, including applications for the vascular market. We may be unable to develop or commercialize our technology for additional applications. The technology underlying our systems is designed to have the potential for applications beyond EP and vascular disease which require a control catheter to approach diseased tissue. We further believe that the technology underlying our system can provide multiple opportunities to improve the speed and capability of many diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. However, we may be unable, due to limited financial or managerial resources, to develop these applications and seek a separate 510(k) clearance or PMA approval from the FDA for these applications of our technology. Also, due to our limited financial and managerial resources, we may be required to focus on products in selected applications and to forego efforts with regard to other products and industries including expansion of our EP and vascular applications as well as the development of other applications. Failure to 50 Table of Contents capitalize on other applications for our technology may limit the addressable market for our products and our ability to grow our revenues and expand our operations. We are dedicating significant resources to the development and commercialization of our Magellan Robotic System, Magellan Robotic Catheters and associated accessories. These efforts may not produce viable commercial products and may divert our limited resources from more profitable market opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to developing products in additional areas but may be unable to justify the value proposition or otherwise develop a commercial market for products we develop in these areas, if any. In that case, the return on investment in these additional areas may be limited, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to maintain collaborative relationships with providers of imaging and visualization technology on terms favorable to us, or at all, our Sensei system may not be able to gain market acceptance and our business may be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We believe that integrating our Sensei system with key imaging and visualization technologies using an open architecture approach is a key element in establishing our Sensei system as important for complex interventional procedures. Our Sensei system currently utilizes a variety of imaging means to visualize and assist in navigating our catheters. These imaging systems include fluoroscopy, intravascular ultrasound and electro-anatomic mapping systems, as well as pre-operatively acquired three-dimensional computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. We believe that in the future, as imaging companies develop increasingly sophisticated three-dimensional imaging systems, we will need to integrate advanced imaging into our Sensei system in order to compete effectively. There can be no assurance that we can timely and effectively integrate these systems or components into our Sensei system in order to remain competitive. We expect to face competition from companies that are developing new approaches and products for use in interventional procedures and that have an established presence in the field of interventional cardiology, including the major imaging, capital equipment and disposables companies that are currently selling products in the electrophysiology laboratory. We may not be able to acquire or develop three- dimensional imaging and visualization technology for use with our Sensei system. In addition, developing or acquiring key imaging and visualization technologies could be expensive and time-consuming and may not integrate well with our Sensei system. If we are unable to timely acquire, develop or integrate imaging and visualization technologies, or any other changing technologies, effectively, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. In April 2007, we entered into agreements with St. Jude Medical, Inc., or St. Jude, to integrate our Sensei system with St. Jude’s Ensite system and to co-market the integrated product. We are not obligated to undertake any other development projects except for the integration of the Sensei system with the EnSite system. We are solely responsible for gaining regulatory approvals for, and all costs associated with, our portion of the integrated products developed under the arrangement. At the end of the second quarter of 2008, the FDA cleared for marketing in the United States our CoHesion Module, which provides an interface between our Sensei system and the EnSite system; however, there can be no assurance that we will successfully maintain necessary regulatory clearances that we and St. Jude will maintain compatibility of our products under the collaboration or that the CoHesion Module will gain market acceptance. In August 2010, we entered into an agreement with St. Jude permitting us to integrate St. Jude’s EnSite Velocity Cardiac Mapping System with our CoHesion Module to provide physicians the ability to visualize, locate and robotically control catheters within the heart to diagnose heart rhythm disorders. This agreement was amended in February 2014 and expired at the end of December 2014. If the agreement is not extended at a future date, we may be unable to maintain our ability to offer integration with the EnSite Velocity System with new system sales, or to maintain compatibility with updated or upgraded versions of EnSite Velocity, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Indemnification obligations to our current and former directors and officers and contractual indemnification obligations to underwriters of our securities offerings could adversely affect our ability to defend claims for which we may be liable, our results of operations, our financial condition and our cash flows. Under Delaware law, our charter documents and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers, employees and directors under certain circumstances. In addition, we have contractual indemnification obligations to the underwriters and placement agents in our prior public and private offerings, as applicable, of our equity securities. Some of these advancement and indemnification obligations may not be covered by our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies or may exceed the coverage limits of those policies. If we incur significant uninsured advancement or indemnity obligations, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to defend claims for which we may be liable, our results of operations, our financial condition and our cash flows. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our offerings and markets and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the company that we acquired, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for us. In addition, we may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions which could harm our operating results. Software defects may be discovered in our products which would damage our ability to sell our products, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our systems incorporate sophisticated computer software. Complex software frequently contains errors, especially when first introduced. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex interventional procedures, we expect that physicians and hospitals will have an increased sensitivity to the potential for software and other defects. We cannot assure you that our software will not experience errors or performance problems in the future. If we experience software errors or performance problems, we would likely also experience: • loss of revenue; • an increase in reportable adverse events to applicable authorities such as the FDA; • delay in market acceptance of our products; • damage to our reputation; • additional regulatory filings; • product recalls; • increased service or warranty costs; and/or • product liability claims relating to the software defects. 52 Table of Contents Our costs could substantially increase if we receive a significant number of service claims which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We typically provide post-contract customer service for each of our products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of approximately 12 months from the date of shipment of our product. The associated expenses are charged to cost of revenues as incurred. We have a limited history of commercial placements of our Sensei systems and a very limited history of commercial placements of our Magellan Robotic Systems from which to judge our rate of claims against our service contracts. Our obligation under these service contracts may be impacted by product failure rates, material usage and service costs. Unforeseen exposure under these post-contract customer service contracts could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hospitals or physicians may be unable to obtain coverage or reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our Sensei system and Magellan Robotic System, which could affect the adoption or use of our systems and may cause our revenues to decline. While we anticipate that third-party payors will continue to reimburse hospitals and physicians under existing billing codes for the vast majority of the procedures involving our products, there is increased pressure for our customers to reduce costs for their services and operations; similarly, the federal healthcare programs are under increasing pressure to reduce its overall costs for items and services. While we expect that healthcare facilities and physicians in the United States will continue to bill various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, other governmental programs and private insurers, for services performed using our products. We believe that procedures associated for use with our products are generally already reimbursable under government programs and most private plans, we are unable to predict how government healthcare programs or private insurers will cover or reimburse these procedures in the future. While providers in the United States will generally not be required to obtain new billing authorizations or codes in order to be compensated for performing medically necessary procedures using our products on insured patients, we are unable to predict how future statutes or regulatory guidance will impact coverage, reimbursement or the use of any specific codes. Thus, there can be no assurance that coverage, coding and reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not change in the future with respect to some or all of the procedures that would use our systems. Additionally, in the event that a physician uses our Sensei system or Magellan Robotic System for indications not approved by the FDA, there can be no assurance that the coverage or reimbursement policies of third-party payors will be comparable to FDA-approved uses. Future legislation, regulation or coverage, coding and reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for our products currently under development and limit our ability to profitably sell our products. For example, in prior years, certain regulatory changes were made to the methodology for calculating payments for inpatient procedures in certain hospitals, resulting in a decrease to Medicare payment rates for surgical and cardiac procedures, including those procedures for which our products are targeted. The majority of the procedures performed with our Sensei system and Artisan catheter are done on an in-patient basis and thus are paid under the Medicare severity diagnosis related group, or MS-DRG system. We believe that the majority of procedures performed using our Sensei technology fall under MS-DRG 251, percutaneous cardiovascular procedures without coronary artery stent or acute myocardial infarction without major cardiovascular complication. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services updates the MS-DRG payment rates annually effective October 1 through September 30 of the following year. Because hospital inpatient reimbursement is largely dependent on geographical location and other hospital-specific factors, an individual hospital’s revenues from using our technology can vary significantly. At this time, although payments for these cardiac procedures have not undergone further reductions, we cannot predict the full impact any future rate changes, including rate reductions, will have on our revenues or business. We do not currently know which MS-DRGs will apply to procedures performed with our Magellan Robotic System or whether reimbursement amounts will be considered favorable by hospitals. 53 Table of Contents Our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement by government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and third-party payors. Recent legislative initiatives in the United States to reform healthcare and government insurance programs have included a focus on healthcare costs which could limit the coverage and reimbursement for procedures utilizing our products. In both the United States and foreign markets, healthcare cost-containment efforts are prevalent and are expected to continue and may increase. The failure of our customers to obtain sufficient reimbursement could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and harm our business. Legislative reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our revenues and business. From time to time, legislative reform measures are proposed or adopted that would impact healthcare expenditures for medical services, including the medical devices used to provide those services. For example, in March 2010, U.S. President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively referred to as the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act made a number of substantial changes in the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and the way that Medicare providers are reimbursed. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act requires certain medical device manufacturers and importers to pay an excise tax equal to 2.3% of the price for which such medical devices are sold, beginning January 1, 2013. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend to Congress proposals in spending reductions. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2.0% per fiscal year. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which delayed for another two months the budget cuts mandated by these sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011. On March 1, 2013, the President signed an executive order implementing sequestration, and on April 1, 2013, the 2% Medicare payment reductions went into effect. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, enacted on December 26, 2013, extends these cuts to 2023. The ATRA also, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. In December 2014, Congress passed an omnibus funding bill (the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015) and a tax extenders bill, both of which may negatively impact coverage and reimbursement of healthcare items and services. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressure. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness reviews of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health care insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs, including delivery reforms such as expanded bundling of services. Hospitals are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, which may increase price sensitivity among customers for our products, and adversely affect sales, pricing, and utilization of our products. Some third-party payors must also approve coverage for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. We cannot predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results. 54 Table of Contents New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012, the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These new requirements required due diligence efforts in 2013 and 2014, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. In May 2014, we filed a Specialized Disclosure Report on Form SD with the SEC disclosing our on-going diligence efforts and our determination that our products were conflict undeterminable at that time. We expect to file our next specialized Disclosure Report on Form SD with SEC in May 2015. There have been and will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. Environmental laws and regulations such as the recent RoHS directives, could cause a disruption in our business and operations. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment and recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various EU member countries. For example, the EU has enacted the WEEE directives. The WEEE directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment on the market in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. Another example is the RoHS2 directives. On July 1, 2011, the Official Journal of the EU published the revised Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS 2) on the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances (six materials specifically identified) in electrical and electronic equipment. This revised Directive (RoHS2) became effective July 21, 2011. The EU used a time-phased approach and identified 10 categories of products that needed to meet these new standards at various start dates. Category 8 includes medical devices and applies to our products. Compliance with this revised directive for category 8 was required by July 22, 2014. All new products held for commerce in the EU must be in compliance with RoHS 2 as of that date. Any remaining inventory that is not in compliance with RoHS2 will be used in products sold in non-EU countries. RoHS2 compliant products may be sold in both EU and non-EU countries. However, only RoHS2 compliant products may be sold in EU countries. In order to minimize duplicate inventory, we plan to produce all future products in compliance with RoHS2 in order to sell them in both EU and non-EU countries. We recently undertook the lengthy process of changing the materials and processes used, where necessary, to bring our products into compliance with RoHS2. As of the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form10-K, all of our products sold in the EU are RoHS2 compliant. There can be no assurance that similar programs will not be implemented in other jurisdictions resulting in additional costs, possible delays in delivering products, and even the discontinuance of existing and planned future product replacements if the cost were to become prohibitive. 55 Table of Contents We sell our systems internationally and are subject to various risks relating to such international activities which could adversely affect our international sales and operating performance. A portion of our current and future revenues will come from international sales. To expand internationally, we will need to hire, train and retain additional qualified personnel. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks, including: • required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • export or import restrictions and controls relating to technology; • pricing pressure; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • shipping delays; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • difficulties in penetrating markets in which our competitors’ products are more established; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. If one or more of these risks are realized, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy the situation, and if we are unsuccessful at finding a solution, our revenue may decline. Our financial results are subject to currency fluctuations as a result of our international operations which could decrease our revenues. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, approximately 48% of our total revenues were generated outside the United States. While some of these revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars, approximately 7% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 were generated in other currencies. We translate results of transactions denominated in local currencies into U.S. dollars using market conversion rates applicable to the period in which the transaction is reported. As a result, changes in exchange rates during a period can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results and our asset and liability balances, even if the underlying value of the item in its original currency has not changed. A hypothetical 5% increase in the United States dollar exchange rate used would have resulted in an immaterial decrease in revenues in the year ended December 31, 2014. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by materials that we handle, and changes in environmental regulations could cause us to incur additional expense. Our research and development, manufacturing and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful biological materials as well as other hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. 56 Table of Contents Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect the intellectual property contained in our products from use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market will be harmed. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. We expect to incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain the patent protection we seek, or whether the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged or that such patent protection will confer any significant commercial advantage. We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert, which, if successful could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. United States patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and United States patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings and, starting in 2012, post grant and inter partes review in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, which proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of, the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination, post grant review, inter partes review, and opposition proceedings may be costly. Some of our technology was, and continues to be, developed in conjunction with third parties, and thus there is a risk that such third parties may claim rights in our intellectual property. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Non-payment or delay in payment of patent fees or annuities, whether intentional or unintentional, may result in loss of patents or patent rights important to our business. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect 57 Table of Contents intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, particularly in the field of medical products and procedures. Our trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to protect unpatented technology provide only limited and possibly inadequate protection of our rights. As a result, third parties may be able to use our unpatented technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products or in commercial relationships with us may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. Third parties may assert that we are infringing their intellectual property rights which may result in litigation. Successfully commercializing our Sensei system, our Magellan Robotic System and any other products we may develop, will depend in part on our not infringing patents held by third parties. It is possible that one or more of our products, including those that we have developed in conjunction with third parties, infringes existing patents. From time to time, we have received, and likely will continue to receive, communications from third parties inviting us to license their patents or accusing us of infringement. There can be no assurance that a third party will not take further action, such as filing a patent infringement lawsuit, including a request for injunctive relief, to bar the manufacture and sale of our Sensei system in the United States or elsewhere or the sale of our Magellan Robotic System in Europe. We may also choose to defend ourselves by initiating litigation or administrative proceedings to clarify or seek a declaration of our rights. As competition in our market grows, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us or litigation we will initiate increases. There may be existing patents which may be broad enough to cover aspects of our future technology. In addition, because patent applications in many countries such as the United States are maintained under conditions of confidentiality and can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. We do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be upheld as valid, enforceable and infringed by our products or technology. We may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these or other third parties. We cannot assure you that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may present concerning the invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. In addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. We cannot assure you that any patents issuing from applications will not cover our products or will not have priority over our own products and patent applications. We may not be able to maintain or obtain all the licenses from third parties necessary or advisable for promoting, manufacturing and selling our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System, which may cause harm to our business, operations and financial condition. We rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our Sensei system and our Magellan Robotic System, such as patents and other intellectual property that we have co-exclusively licensed from Intuitive Surgical, or Intuitive. Under our agreement with Intuitive, we received the right to apply Intuitive’s patent portfolio in the field of intravascular approaches for the diagnosis or treatment of cardiovascular, neurovascular and peripheral vascular diseases. To the extent that we develop or commercialize robotic capability outside the field of use covered by our license with Intuitive, which we may choose to do at some time in the future, we may not have the patent protection and the freedom to operate outside the field which is afforded by the license inside the field. Although we believe that there are opportunities for us to operate outside the licensed field of use without using Intuitive’s intellectual property, Intuitive from time to time has told us that it believes certain of our past activities that have fallen outside the licensed field have infringed its intellectual property rights. Although we disagree with Intuitive’s position, we presently remain focused within our licensed field and so have agreed to inform Intuitive before commencing any further outside clinical 58 Table of Contents investigations for endoluminal applications or engaging in external technology exhibitions at non-intravascular conferences. There can be no assurance that Intuitive will not challenge any activities we engage in outside the intravascular space, and we cannot assure you that in the event of such a challenge we would be able to reach agreement with Intuitive on whether activities outside our licensed field may be conducted without the use of the Intuitive’s intellectual property. If Intuitive asserts that any of our activities outside the licensed field are infringing their patent or other intellectual property rights or commences litigation against us, we will incur significant costs defending against such claims or seeking an additional license from Intuitive, and we may be required to limit use of our systems or future products and technologies within our licensed intravascular field if any of our activities outside the licensed field are judged to infringe Intuitive’s intellectual property, any of which could cause substantial harm our business, operations and financial condition. Although Intuitive is restricted in how it can terminate our license, if Intuitive were ever to successfully do so, and if we are unable to obtain another license from Intuitive, we could be required to abandon use of our existing product technology completely and could have to undergo a substantial redesign and design-around effort, which we cannot assure you would be successful. In October 2012, we signed an updated license agreement with Intuitive. Under the terms of the agreement, Intuitive’s existing co-exclusive rights to our patent portfolio to certain non-vascular procedures have been extended to include patents filed or conceived by us subsequent to the original 2005 agreement up to and including the period three years subsequent to the amendment. We retain the right to use our intellectual property for all clinical applications, both vascular and non-vascular. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s attention, require us to pay damages and discontinue selling our products. The medical device industry is characterized by frequent and extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often difficult to predict, and the outcome may be uncertain until the relevant court has entered final non-appealable. Our competitors may assert, and have asserted in the past, that our products or the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. This risk is heightened due to the numerous issued and pending patents relating to the use of robotic and catheter-based procedures in the medical technology field. For example, we have received correspondence from a third party indicating it believes it holds a patent that our Sensei system may infringe. While we do not believe that the Sensei system infringes this patent, there can be no assurance that the third party will not take further action, such as filing a patent infringement lawsuit, including a request for injunctive relief, to bar the manufacture and sale of our Sensei system in the United States. If relevant patents are upheld as valid and enforceable and we are found to infringe, we could be prevented from selling our system unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. In addition, our patents may be subject to various invalidity attacks, such as those based upon earlier filed patent applications, patents, publications, products or processes, which might invalidate or limit the scope of the protection that our patents afford. Infringement actions, validity challenges and other intellectual property claims and proceedings, whether with or without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in obtaining patents and expect to incur substantial costs defending our proprietary rights. Incurring such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 59 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or that we will successfully defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our products, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. An inability to incorporate technologies or features that are important or essential to our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, and may prevent us from selling our products. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Incurring such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Additional Risks Related to Regulatory Matters If we fail to obtain regulatory clearances in other countries for existing products or products under development, we will not be able to commercialize these products in those countries. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding quality, safety and efficacy of our products. Approval and CE marking procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval or CE Certificate of Conformity in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA clearance. The regulatory approval or CE marking process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA clearance in the United States. Regulatory approval or the CE marking of a product in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval or a CE Certificate of Conformity in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or a CE Certificate of Conformity in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects described above regarding FDA clearance in the United States. For example, in the EEA, our devices are required to comply with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive (applicable in the non-EU EEA Member States via the Agreement on the European Economic Area). We are also required to ensure compliance with the relevant quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive. Companies compliant with ISO requirements such as “EN ISO 13485: 2003 Medical devices — Quality management systems — Requirements for regulatory purposes” benefit from a presumption of conformity with the relevant Essential Requirements or the quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive. Following successful completion of a conformity assessment procedure conducted in relation to the medical device and its manufacturer and their conformity with the Essential Requirements and quality system requirements, the Notified Body issues a CE Certificate of Conformity. This Certificate entitles the manufacturer to affix the CE mark to its medical devices after having prepared and signed a related EC Declaration of Conformity. We received a CE Certificate of Conformity for our Artisan catheters in May 2007, our Magellan Robotic System in July 2011, our Magellan Robotic Catheter and related accessories designed for use with the Magellan Robotic System in October 2011, our Artisan Extend catheters 60 Table of Contents in February 2013, and our Magellan Robotic 6Fr catheters in November 2014. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in meeting and continuing to meet the requirements of the Medical Devices Directive in the EEA. We may fail to comply with continuing postmarket regulatory requirements of the FDA and other authorities and become subject to substantial penalties, or marketing experience may show that our device is unsafe, forcing us to recall or withdraw it permanently from the market. We must comply with continuing regulation by the FDA and other authorities, including the FDA’s QSR, requirements, labeling and promotional requirements and medical device adverse event and other reporting requirements. If the adverse event reports we file with the FDA regarding death, serious injuries or malfunctions indicate or suggest that the device presents an unacceptable risk to patients, including when used off-label by physicians, we may be forced to recall the device and/or modify the device or its labeling, or withdraw it permanently from the market. The FDA has expressed concerns regarding the safety of the Sensei system when used with catheters and in procedures not specified in the current label, such as ablation catheters and ablation procedures, and we have already filed Medical Device Reports reporting adverse events during procedures utilizing our technology. Physicians may be using our device off-label with ablation catheters in ablation procedures, as well as in other EP procedures for which we have not collected safety data, and we therefore cannot assure you that clinical experience will demonstrate that the device is safe for these uses. Any failure to comply, or any perception that we are not complying, with continuing regulation by the FDA or other authorities, including restrictions regarding off-label promotion, could result in enforcement action that may include suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances approvals, or CE Certificates of Conformity, recalling products, ceasing product marketing, seizure and detention of products, paying significant fines and penalties, criminal prosecution and similar actions that could limit product sales, delay product shipment and harm our profitability and reputation. In many foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Many of these regulations are similar to those of the FDA. In addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before procedures performed using our products become eligible for coverage and reimbursement. Failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances and CE Certificates of Conformity, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, California Department of Health Services requirements or EEA quality system requirements, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and our product sales and operating results could suffer. Our manufacturing processes, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR, which cover the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to such inspections. Similar quality system requirements also apply in the EEA. If our manufacturing facilities or those of any of our contract manufacturers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection, the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Notified Body, the competent authorities in the EEA could take enforcement action, including any of the following administration or judicial sanctions, which could have a material impact on our operations: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; 61 Table of Contents • customer notifications or mandatory plans product for repair, product replacement, or refunds; • recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our requests for submissions seeking 510(k) clearance, investigational device exemptions (IDE) to perform clinical studies or premarket approval of new products or modified products; • operating restrictions; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or IDE/PMA approvals that have already been granted; • suspension or withdrawal of our CE Certificates of Conformity; • refusal to grant export approval or issue export documentation for our products; • import holds; or • criminal prosecution. We underwent an FDA inspection, which employed the Quality System Inspection Technique, or QSIT, in 2014 and received one inspectional observation. We received the establishment inspection report (EIR) from the FDA on January 26, 2015 after the agency closed the inspection per CFT 20.64.We are subject to the licensing requirements of the California Department of Health Services, or CDHS. We have been inspected and licensed by the CDHS and remain subject to re-inspection at any time. Failure to maintain a license from the CDHS or to meet the inspection criteria of the CDHS would disrupt our manufacturing processes. If an inspection by the CDHS indicates that there are deficiencies in our manufacturing process, we could be required to take remedial actions at potentially significant expense, and our facility may be temporarily or permanently closed. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. An increased frequency of filing Medical Device Reports, or MDRs, or Manufacturers’ Incident Reports in the EEA concerning adverse events occurring during procedures performed with our technology could result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our products and could delay or prevent the adoption of our products. Under the FDA’s medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA when the manufacturer becomes aware of information from any source that alleges that a device marketed by the manufacturer has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. A manufacturer may determine that an event may not meet the FDA’s reporting criteria so that an MDR is not necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. We have made decisions that certain types of events are not MDR reportable. In the EEA, similar reporting requirements are imposed on medical device manufacturers. When a medical device, its labeling or instructions for use are is suspected to be a contributory cause of an event that led or might have led to death of or the serious deterioration of the health of a patient, or user or of other person, its manufacturer or authorized representative must report the event to the competent authority of the EEA country where the incident occurred. There can be no assurance that the FDA or the competent authorities in the EEA country will agree with our decisions. If we fail to report MDRs to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, or if the FDA or the competent authorities of the EEA countries disagree with any of our determinations that events are not reportable, the FDA or the competent authorities of the EEA countries could take enforcement action against us. Any such adverse event involving our products also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as products withdrawals and recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. 62 Table of Contents We have filed MDRs, and Manufacturer’s Incident Reports reporting adverse events during procedures utilizing our technology and have developed internal systems and processes that are designed to evaluate future events that may require adverse event reporting to the FDA or the competent authorities if the EEA countries. As the frequency of use of our technology in EP and vascular procedures increases, we are experiencing, and anticipate continuing to experience, it being necessary to file an increased number of MDRs and Manufacturer’s Incident Reports. An increased frequency of filing MDRs and Manufacturer’s Incident Reports or a failure to timely file MDRs may result in requests for further information from the FDA or the competent authorities of the EEA countries, which could delay other matters that we may have pending before the FDA, the competent authorities of the EEA or our Notified Body or result in additional regulatory action. An increased frequency of MDRs and Manufacturer’s Incident Reports could also reduce confidence in the safety of our products and delay or prevent the acceptance of our products by physicians and hospitals, which would harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. As a manufacturer we are sometimes required to make decisions about whether to take corrective action in the field and whether to report that activity to the FDA or the competent authorities of the EEA countries. If the FDA or the competent authorities of the EEA countries disagrees with those decisions, we may be subject to enforcement action and our product sales and operating results could suffer. The FDA and similar foreign competent authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign competent authorities have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, manufacture or performance of the products and inadequacy in the labeling or Instruction for Use. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. We have conducted voluntary recalls in the past. Recalls of any of our products would likely divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA or other competent authorities. We have in the past initiated voluntary actions involving our products that we determined did not require notification of the FDA, and we may in the future initiate additional voluntary actions that we determine do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA or the competent authorities of the EEA countries disagree with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. Additionally, we have, and may again in the future, take actions in the field that we do not consider to be recalls. If the FDA or other competent authorities disagree with our determinations, they could require us to treat these actions as recalls, issue communications, or report those actions to FDA. The agency may also initiate other enforcement action if they disagree with our recall decisions, including but not limited to issuing warning letters, or more serious actions such as civil or criminal penalties. A future recall announcement or enforcement action could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA or other competent authorities could take enforcement action for failing to treat certain actions as recalls and report the recalls when they were conducted. Modifications to our products may, and in some instances, will, require new regulatory clearances, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity and may require us to recall or cease marketing our products until clearances, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity are obtained. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory approvals or clearances, including 510(k) clearances or PMAs, and may require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances 63 Table of Contents or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not modifications require a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer of a 510(k) cleared product is required to obtain 510(k) clearance for device modifications that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, or constitute a major change in the intended use of the subject device. Accordingly, a manufacturer may determine that a modification could not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use so that no new 510(k) clearance is necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. For those products sold in the EEA, we must notify and await completion of the review of our Notified Body, before introducing substantial changes to the products or to our quality system. Following its review, our Notified Body will decide whether our existing CE Certificates of Conformity can be maintained or varied, or whether new certificate are required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional review, clearances or approvals. There can be no assurance that the FDA, our Notified Body or the competent authorities of the EEA countries will agree with our approach in such matters or that, if required, subsequent requests for 510(k) clearance, PMA approval or CE Certificates of Conformity will be received in a timely fashion, if at all. The FDA, our Notified Body or the competent authorities of the EEA countries may require us to cease supply, recall and to stop marketing our products as modified or to disable features pending clearance or approval or the granting of a CE Certificate of Conformity which would significantly harm our ability to sell our products and cause harm to our existing customer relationships and business. Even if we are not required to take such action, delays in obtaining clearances, approvals or CE Certificate of Conformity for features would adversely affect our ability to introduce enhanced products in a timely manner and would harm our revenue and operating results. The FDA our Notified Body or the competent authorities of the EEA countries could also take other enforcement action, including but not limited to, issuing a warning letter relating to our decision to implement features and other product modifications without submission of a new 510(k) notice or PMA and suspension or withdrawal of our existing CE Certificates of Conformity. Clinical trials and clinical investigations necessary to support any future 510(k), PMA application or CE marking of our products will be expensive and may require the enrollment of large numbers of clinical sites and patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Delays or failures in our clinical trials may prevent us from commercializing any modified or new products and will adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Initiating and completing clinical trials and clinical investigations necessary to support a 510(k), PMA application or CE marking for expanded indications for use of our existing products, will be time consuming and expensive and the outcome uncertain. Moreover, the results of early clinical trials and clinical investigations are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials. Conducting successful clinical studies and clinical investigations may require the enrollment of large numbers of clinical sites and patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials/investigations and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the clinical trial/investigation protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial/study investigators, support staff, and proximity of patients to clinical sites and ability to comply with the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial/investigation and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials/investigations if the protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products or if they determine that the treatments received under the 64 Table of Contents protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomforts. Patients may also not participate in our clinical trials/investigations if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials/investigations of competitive products or they can obtain the treatment without participating in our trial/investigation through physicians who use the product off-label. We received approval of an IDE application for an approximately 300 patient study for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and enrolled our first patient in May 2010 and approximately 50 patients were enrolled as of January 2013. A proposed modification to the study protocol was submitted to FDA for review in April 2013. The modified study, which plans to enroll as few as 125 subjects, was approved by the FDA in August 2013 and approximately three-fourths of the targeted number of additional subjects have been enrolled to date. The study includes a seven-day follow-up for safety and a one-year follow-up for efficacy at intervals of 90, 180, and 365 days. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate quality, safety and efficacy may be required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance or approval. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to consent or continue to participate in a clinical trial/investigation may cause an increase in costs and delays in the approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial/investigation. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, FDA, our Notified Body or the competent authorities of the EEA countries may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate quality, safety and efficacy. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. If we fail to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our activities, and the activities of our agents, including some contracted third parties, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. Our interactions in the U.S. or abroad with physicians and other potential referral sources who prescribe or purchase our products are subject to government regulation designed to prevent health care fraud and abuse. Relevant U.S. laws include: • the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, paying or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any item or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid; • federal civil False Claims Act which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment of government funds that are false or fraudulent; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits, among other things, executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain obligations relating to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997, which makes it illegal to offer or provide money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, state breach notification laws, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Nevada, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs and/or impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. 65 Table of Contents The FDA, the Office of Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services or OIG, the U.S. Department of Justice, states’ Attorneys General and other governmental authorities actively enforce the laws and regulations discussed above. In the U.S., pharmaceutical and device manufacturers have been the target of numerous government prosecutions and investigations alleging violations of law, including claims asserting impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical and medical device products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state health care business, and submission of false or fraudulent claims for government payments. The Affordable Care Act also clarified that a person or entity need not have actual knowledge of the Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent in order to violate it. In addition, the Affordable Care Act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act or federal civil money penalties statute. As part of our compliance program, we have reviewed our sales contracts and marketing materials and practices to assure compliance with these federal and state laws, and inform employees and marketing representatives of the Anti-Kickback Statute and their obligations thereunder. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. We cannot rule out the possibility that the government or other third parties could interpret these laws differently and challenge our practices under one or more of these laws. The Affordable Care Act also imposes new tracking and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals. Device manufacturers with products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children’s Health Insurance Program were required to begin tracking such payments on August 1, 2013 and submit reports to Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS by March 31, 2014, and by the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year. We began tracking applicable payments and transfers of value on August 1, 2013 and began reporting payment data to the CMS in March 2014 and will continue to do so annually thereafter. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federal healthcare programs like Medicare and Medicaid and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws or regulations is increased by the fact that many of these laws or regulations have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, to achieve compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, and electronic transaction laws, we may be required to modify our operations with respect to the handling of patient information. Implementing these modifications may prove costly. At this time, we are not able to determine the full consequences to us, including the total cost of compliance, of these various federal and state laws. Our international operations expose us to liability under global anticorruption laws. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and/or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States involve governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not protect us from negligent, reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Moreover, even a perceived or alleged violation could result in costly investigations or proceedings that could harm our financial position and reputation. 66 Table of Contents The application of state certificate of need regulations and compliance by providers with federal and state licensing requirements, as well as accreditation requirements, could substantially limit our ability to sell our products and grow our business. Some states require healthcare providers to obtain a certificate of need or similar regulatory approval prior to the acquisition of high-cost capital items such as our Sensei and Magellan systems. In many cases, a limited number of these certificates are available and, as a result, hospitals and other healthcare providers may be unable to obtain a certificate of need for the purchase of our Sensei and Magellan systems. Further, our sales cycle for our system is typically longer in certificate of need states due to the time it takes our customers to obtain the required approvals. In addition, our customers must meet various federal and state regulatory and/or accreditation requirements in order to receive reimbursement from government-sponsored healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and other third-party payors. Any lapse by our customers in maintaining appropriate licensure, certification or accreditation, or the failure of our customers to satisfy the other necessary requirements under government-sponsored healthcare programs, could cause our sales to decline. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Since our initial public offering in November 2006 through February 27, 2015, our closing stock price has fluctuated from a low of $0.55 to a high of $38.87. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including those set forth in this Item 1A as well as: • the announcement of our operating results, including the number of systems sold during a period and our revenue for the period, and the comparison of these results to the expectations of analysts and investors; • the receipt, denial or timing of regulatory clearances, approvals or actions of our products or competing products; • sales of common stock or other debt or equity securities by us or our stockholders in the future; • the success of any collaborations we may undertake with other companies; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • the pace of enrollment or results of our currently planned clinical trial of at least 125 patients or any other clinical trials; • changes in policies affecting third-party coverage and reimbursement in the United States and other countries; • ability of our products to achieve market success; • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers; • our ability to develop sales and marketing capabilities; • our ability to manufacture our products to meet commercial and regulatory standards; • our ability to manage costs and improve margins; • actual or anticipated volatility in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements of new products, technological innovations or product advancements by us or our competitors; • announcements of acquisitions or dispositions by us or our competitors; 67 Table of Contents • developments with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • trading volume of our common stock; • our announcements of guidance regarding future operating or financial results which fails to meet investor or analyst expectations or which differs from our previously-announced guidance; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, failure to obtain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analyst earnings estimates; • public statements by analysts or clinicians regarding their perceptions of the effectiveness of our products; • developments in our industry; • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; and • the impact of shareholder lawsuits and governmental investigations both on us and on our public perception. The stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Additional class action securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management resources, which could significantly harm our business. Securities analysts may not continue, or additional securities analysts may not initiate, coverage for our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Currently, several securities analysts provide research coverage of our common stock. Several analysts have already published statements that do not portray our technology, products or procedures using our products in a positive light and others may do so in the future. If we are unable to educate those who publicize such reports about the benefits we believe our technology provides, or if one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If sufficient securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract and maintain sufficient independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Our principal stockholders, directors and management own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. Based on our review of publicly available filings as of February 27, 2015, all those known by the Company to be beneficial owners of more than five percent of our common stock, together with our executive officers and directors beneficially own or control approximately 36.7 percent of our outstanding common stock. Additionally, on March 11, 2015,we issued to investors 53,846 shares of preferred stock which are convertible into shares of common stock and warrants which are exercisable for 53,846,000 shares of common stock (see Note 15). Upon receipt of shareholder approval the preferred stock will convert into the number of shares of common stock obtained by dividing (i) $650 plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends by (ii) the lesser of $0.65 or the per share trailing weighted average share price of the common stock on NASDAQ for the ten trading days 68 Table of Contents ending on the day prior to the conversion. Assuming the conversion ratio of 1,300 shares of common stock for each share of preferred stock (which equates to a trailing weighted average share price of $0.50 per share), the exercise in full of the warrants issued in connection with the financing, as well as the exercise in full of all outstanding warrants held by these stockholders, the ownership and control by these stockholders may increase to up to 67.45% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our principal stockholders and our executive officers and directors have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. In addition, pursuant to our loan agreement, we must obtain the lenders’ prior written consent in order to pay any dividends on our common stock. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: • permit our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate, including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in our control; • provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors; • provide that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; • divide our Board of Directors into three classes; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and not be taken by written consent; • provide that stockholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of stockholders must provide notice in writing in a timely manner, and also specify requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder’s notice; • do not provide for cumulative voting rights, therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election, if they should so choose; • provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the Board, our chief executive officer or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; and 69 Table of Contents • provide that stockholders will be permitted to amend our amended and restated bylaws only upon receiving at least 66 2/3 percent of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any broad range of business combinations with any stockholder who owns, or at any time in the last three years owned, 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Future sales or issuances of shares of our common stock, the announcement to undertake such sales or issuances, or the perception that such sales or issuances may occur, may dilute our existing stockholders and depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock by us or by our stockholders, announcements of the proposed sales of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock or the perception that sales may be made, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital or in connection with acquisitions, corporate alliances or settlements with third parties and we plan to issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants in connection with their services to us. For example, in August 2013 we sold 28,455,284 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 34,146,339 shares of our common stock in a private placement and in August 2014, we issued additional warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,286,023 shares of our common stock in a subsequent private placement. The issuance of the shares of common stock resulted in immediate dilution to our stockholders and the on-going exercises of outstanding warrants has caused, and may continue to cause, further dilution to our stockholders in the future. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period, which may reduce our stock price. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Global Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 70 Table of Contents 