D. RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The growth and composition of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2011, the compounded annual growth rate of our aggregate gross loan portfolio was 11.3%. Our business strategy is to grow profitably while increasing the size of our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio has two segments with the highest levels of risk: consumer loans and loans to small- to medium-sized companies (SME). As of December 31, 2011, the risk index (total allowances divided by total loans) of such segments was approximately 5.4% and 2.1%, respectively, while other segments of our loan portfolio such as mortgage loans or large corporation loans have a lower risk index of less than 1.0%. Our consumer loans have been decreasing since 2009 in terms of both aggregate amount, and as a percentage of our total loan portfolio, of which as of December 31, 2011, represented 6.21% of our total loan portfolio. Although we have increased the collateral we hold in special purpose vehicles to further develop our consumer loan portfolio, the characteristics of our consumer loan portfolio that make it susceptible to loan losses are the absence of collateral and the risk of unemployment of our consumer borrowers. Our SME loans increased 23.7% in 2011 when compared to 2010, but SME loans as a percentage of our total loans portfolio remained at 3.0%. The characteristics of our SME loan portfolio that makes it susceptible to loan losses are the risk of failure of a debtor’s business and any limits in collateral and guarantees from principals, subsidiaries, affiliates and related parties. The growth of our loan portfolio (particularly in the lower-middle to middle income consumer and small and medium-sized corporate business segments) may expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish proportionately higher levels of provisions for loan losses, which offset the increased income that we can expect to receive as our loan portfolio grows. We believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of the date hereof to cover all known losses in our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same or similar rate. Past performance of our loan portfolio may not be indicative of future performance. There can be no assurance that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same or similar rates as the growth rate that we historically experienced. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. Economic turmoil could also materially and adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers, including a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment, which in turn could lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. In the past few years, the global financial system has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility and general widening of spreads. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the second half of 2008, and many countries, including the United States, in past years have been operating in a recessionary period. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, have also been experiencing significant difficulties. In recent years, there have also been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). 16 In Chile, the global economic recession in 2008 and 2009 caused an increase in unemployment, a decrease in consumer spending, a decrease in real estate prices and a general decline in economic activity. Nevertheless, Chile’s GDP grew 5.2% in 2010, 6.0% in 2011 and is expected to grow between 4.0% and 5.0% in 2012, accompanied by a high demand for labor and asset price increases. However, a possible intensification of the economic and sovereign debt crisis in some industrialized economies, particularly in Europe, and the continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a negative impact on the performance of the Chilean economy and a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect the results of our operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, Banco del Estado de Chile (“BancoEstado”), a state owned bank, credit unions and public social security funds (cajas de compensación) that offer consumer and other loans to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower-middle to middle income segments of the Chilean population and the small and medium-sized corporate segments have become the target markets of several banks, and competition in these segments is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments have declined. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from the lower-middle to middle income consumer market segments and for small and medium-sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, our net interest margins may not be maintained at their current levels. We also face competition from non-bank and non-finance competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards, consumer loans, insurance brokerage, department stores, large supermarket chains and other financial intermediaries who are able to provide large companies with access to the capital markets as an alternative to bank loans and sell other financial products. Non-bank competition from large department stores has become increasingly significant in the consumer lending sector as many leading department store owners and operators began offering consumer credit either alone or in conjunction with various financial institutions. Since 1998, three new private sector banks affiliated with Chile’s largest department stores have initiated operations mainly as consumer and medium-sized corporate niche banks. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to loans and credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products and mortgage loans. Banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds in Chile, and the insurance sales business has seen rapid growth. Nevertheless, non-banking competition, especially department stores, may be able to engage in some types of advertising and promotion in which, by virtue of Chilean banking rules and regulations, we are prohibited from engaging. The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to consolidation in the industry. Further consolidation in the industry, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate. An increase in the prevalence of this method of financing could reduce our market share for corporate financing and adversely affect our results of operations. Insurance companies as well as mutual associations (Administradoras de Mutuos Hipotecarios) are allowed to participate and compete with banks in the residential mortgage and credit card businesses, further increasing competition in our industry. Furthermore, under the General Banking Law representative offices of non-Chilean banks are now allowed to promote the credit products and services of their headquarters and banks, insurance companies, retailers and other financial institutions are required to inform their customers of the all-in costs of the financial services on standardized terms allowing their customers to compare the cost of the products offered by them, all of which have increased, and may further increase, competition in our industry and, thus, have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 17 Our allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover the future actual losses to our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses was Ch$102,500.0 million (excluding allowances and impairment for interbank loans), and the ratio of our allowance for loan losses to total loans was 1.5%. The amount of allowances is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses require recalibration, which can lead to increased provision expense. We believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of the date hereof for all known losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional allowances for loan losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our exposure to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses could lead to higher levels of past due loans and subsequent loan losses. The quality of our portfolio of loans to individuals and small and medium-sized companies is dependent to a significant extent on prevailing economic conditions in Chile. Small and medium-sized companies and lower-middle to middle income individuals are more likely to be more severely affected by adverse developments in the Chilean economy than large corporations and higher income individuals. As a result, lending to small and medium-sized companies and lower-middle to middle income individuals represents a relatively higher degree of risk than lending to other market segments. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals and small and medium-sized companies (those with annual sales between Ch$600.0 million and Ch$5,999.0 million). As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to small and medium-sized companies and lower-income individuals. Our business results relating to our lower-income individual and small and medium-sized company customers are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean economy, including increases in unemployment, than our business from large corporations and high-income individuals. For example, unemployment directly affects the capacity of individuals to obtain and repay consumer loans. Consequently, this could materially and adversely affect the liquidity, business and financial condition of our customers, which may in turn cause us to experience higher levels of past due loans, which could result in higher allowances for loan losses. This may materially affect our asset quality, results of operations and financial conditions. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our loan portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, our past due loans were Ch$46,379.0 million, which resulted in a past due loans to total loans ratio of 0.7% and our non-performing loans were Ch$107,978.0 million, which resulted in a non-performing to total loans ratio of 1.6%. We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems are free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. In addition, the quality of our loan portfolio may also deteriorate due to various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as the macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. If such deterioration were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. 18 The value of any collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio. From time to time, we require our borrowers to collateralize their loans with guarantees, pledges of particular assets or other security. The value of any collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting Chile’s economy. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable to a negative economic climate and this may affect us as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgages loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional allowances to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there are certain provisions under Chilean law No. 19,335 of 1994 that may affect the procedures for foreclosing on or liquidating residential mortgages if the residence in question has been declared as “family property” by a court because it is inhabited by the family of the mortgagor. If any party occupying the real estate files a petition with the court requesting that such real estate be declared family property, we may be delayed from foreclosing on such property. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile. In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the SBIF, Dicom (a Chilean nationwide credit data base) and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile, our assessment of the credit risks associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources, which may not be complete or accurate. As a result, asset quality may be materially adversely affected by such developments. Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility. Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, our ratio of net interest income to total operating income was 65.3%, 68.7% and 57.8% respectively. Changes in market interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities leading to a reduction in our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day benchmark rate began to rise in the latter part of 2005 and through 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 reaching a high of 5.3% and a low of 4.5% in 2006, a high of 6.2% and a low of 4.6% in 2007, a high of 8.4% and a low of 6.5% in 2008, a high of 6.7% and a low of 0.5% in 2009, a high of 3.4% and a low of 0.5% in 2010 and a high of 5.6% and a low of 3.6% in 2011. During 2008, we began to increase our investments in available-for-sale instruments as our current strategy is to build a profitable medium-term portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, we had Ch$737,162.0 million, Ch$746,248.0 million and Ch$843,250.0 million, respectively, in financial investments available-for-sale. In the current global economic climate, there is a greater degree of uncertainty and unpredictability in the policy decisions and the setting of interest rates by the Central Bank and, as a result, any volatility in interest rates could adversely affect our business, our future financial performance and the market value of our securities. 19 Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and a material adverse effect on our revenues. Deposits and other term deposits are our primary sources of funding, which represent 59.6% of our liabilities as of December 31, 2011. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may adversely affect our access to funding. Chilean regulations impose restrictions on the share of assets that a Chilean pension fund management company (Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones, an “AFP”) may allocate: (a) per fund (considering all sub-funds within an AFP (A, B, C, D or E)), to deposits in checking accounts and term deposit accounts and in debt securities issued by a single banking institution (or guaranteed by such bank), investments not exceeding the value of a multiple set forth by the Central Bank of Chile considering such bank’s equity (patrimonio) which shall fluctuate between 0.5 and 1.5 in accordance with article 47 of the D.L. 3,500; (b) per type of sub-fund, to shares of a single banking institution (or guaranteed by such bank), investments not exceeding 11.0% of the value of the relevant sub-fund; and (c) per fund (considering all sub-funds), to a single banking institution, investments not exceeding 2.5% of the value of such banking institution subscribed shares with a maximum limit equal to 5.0% of the value of such AFP multiplied by the concentration factor applicable to the banking institution as set forth in number III.7.1 of the Investment Regime of the Chilean Pension Funds issued by the Superintendency of Pensions, at a current level of 0.2 for CorpBanca’s shareholder current structure. Additionally, each fund managed by an AFP is permitted to make deposits with a bank for an amount not to exceed the equivalent of such bank’s equity. If the exposure of a pension fund managed by an AFP to a single bank exceeds such limit for investments in securities, the AFP for such pension fund is required to reduce the fund’s exposure below the limit within three years. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate exposure of AFPs to us was approximately Ch$ 1,424,317.33 million (US$ 2,731.40 million) or 2.0% of their total assets. If the exposure of any AFP to us exceeds the regulatory limit, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. In 2007, new regulations governing the Chilean Capital Markets were approved (Reformas al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2)) relaxing the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2011, the limit on making investments abroad was 80.0%. As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. As of December 31, 2011, 17.0% of our time deposits were from AFPs. In the case of banks, each fund managed by an AFP is permitted to make deposits with such bank for an amount not to exceed the equivalent of such bank’s equity. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy. Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8.0% of risk-weighted assets, net of required loan loss allowance and deductions, and basic capital of at least 3.0% of total assets, net of required loan loss allowances. In order to maintain a high solvency classification from the SBIF, we need to have regulatory capital over 10.0% of risk-weighted assets, and our intention is to have the highest classification from the SBIF. As of December 31, 2011, the ratio of our regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets, net of loan loss allowance and deductions, was 14.64%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: 20 · the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business, · the failure to increase our capital correspondingly, · losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality, · declines in the value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio, · goodwill and minority interest; · changes in accounting rules, and · changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. As provided in Article 68 of the General Banking Law, if we fail to comply with the legal requirements relating to the maintenance of regulatory capital (which is comprised of effective net worth and basic capital, as both concepts are defined in such provision), we must comply with such legal requirements within a period of sixty days. For each day we fail to comply with such legal requirements, we may be subject to a daily penalty equal to one thousandth of the deficit of the effective net worth or basic capital, as the case may be. In 2009, the SBIF postponed the application of the third pillar of Basel II in Chile until 2012, which includes the implementation of capital limits with market risk and operational risk-weighted assets. These changes must be approved by Congress as it involves a modification to the General Banking Law. We are not aware of current legislative action on such matter. A downgrade of CorpBanca’s counterparty credit rating by international or domestic credit rating agencies may also affect our debt credit rating for domestic and international debt, our business, our future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. In connection with the announcement of our proposed acquisition of Banco Santander Colombia, Standard&Poors (S&P) placed CorpBanca’s long term debt on CreditWatch with negative implications. Any adverse revision to CorpBanca’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international and domestic rating agencies may adversely affect our debt ratings, and, as a result, our cost of funding, including interest rates paid on our deposits and securities. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Our business is highly dependent on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems. Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade information technology systems effectively or on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect us. We may experience operational problems or errors. We, like all large financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurances that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing measures may not prevent third parties from using us as a conduit for those activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing laws and regulations and we have adopted various policies and procedures, including internal controls and “know-your customer” procedures, aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, because we also rely on our correspondent banks having their own appropriate anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing procedures, we use what we believe are commercially reasonable procedures for monitoring our correspondent banks. However, these measures, procedures and compliance may not be entirely effective in preventing third parties from using us (and our correspondent banks) as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing without our (and our correspondent banks’) knowledge or consent. If we were to be associated with money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing, our reputation could be harmed and we could become subject to fines, sanctions or legal enforcement (including being added to any “blacklists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with us), which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Banking regulations may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the SBIF. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. During the Chilean financial crisis of 1982 and 1983, the Central Bank and the SBIF strictly controlled the funding, lending and general business matters of the banking industry in Chile. Pursuant to the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the SBIF, engage in certain businesses in addition to commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and their financial strength. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean financial system, which is a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the SBIF to deny new banking licenses. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the change of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. 22 Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. However, since June 1, 2002, the Central Bank has allowed banks to pay interest on checking accounts. Currently, there are no applicable restrictions on the interest that may be paid on checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, numerous novel regulatory proposals have been discussed or proposed. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, issued a set of details of global regulatory standards on bank capital adequacy and liquidity, known as “Basel III,” agreed by the Governors and Heads of Supervision. Basel III was further revised in June 2011. Among other things, Basel III includes the definition of capital, the treatment of counterparty risk, the leverage index and a global standard of liquidity. Implementation of Basel III would require legislative action, in particular regarding minimum capital and ratios between assets and shareholders’ equity of banks. While the short- and long-term effects of the implementation of Basel III are still uncertain, it can be expected that such implementation may impose stricter requirements on minimum capital to banking institutions, as well as additional reserve requirements that would be used by banks to absorb losses arising from economic and financial stress periods. We cannot predict how Basel III will be implemented by Chilean laws and regulations and if such implementation will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, further capital requirements as a result of implementation of Basel III or future economic conditions may affect our capital basis and lead us to adopt conservative measures for our capital or increase our capital, which would result in reduced profits or financial ratios. Currently, there are discussions among the SBIF, Servicio Nacional del Consumidor (Chile’s Consumer Protection Agency) or SERNAC, and the Minister of Finance regarding a proposal to place limitations on banks’ ability to sell products in packages combining multiple products. Any such limitation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to regulatory inspections and examinations. We are also subject to various inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to protect personal information could adversely affect us. We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages, which, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 23 Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which may result in reinvestment of assets on less profitable terms. Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a borrower or issuer to pay a debt obligation prior to maturity. For mortgage loans, our borrowers may prepay their mortgage loans at any time without incurring any prepayment penalty or fee. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases, which reduces the weighted average lives of our earning assets and adversely affects our operating results. We would also be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has an adverse impact on our loan portfolios, since prepayments could shorten their weighted average life, which may result in a mismatch in funding or reinvestment at lower yields. Exposure to government debt could have an adverse effect on us. Like many other major Chilean banks, we invest in debt securities issued by the Chilean government that, for the most part, are short-term and highly liquid instruments. As of December 31, 2011, 4.3% of our total assets comprised of securities issued by the Chilean government. If the Chilean government defaults on the timely payment of such securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Mismatches of exchange rate and maturity between our loan portfolio and our sources of funds could materially adversely affect us and our capacity to expand our loan business. We are exposed to maturity mismatches between our loans and sources of funding. The majority of our loan portfolio consists of fixed interest rate loans, and the yield from our loans depends on our ability to balance our cost of funding with the interest rates we charge to our borrowers. An increase in market interest rates in Chile could increase our cost of funding, especially the cost of time deposits, and could reduce the spread we earn on our loans, materially adversely affecting us. Any mismatch between the maturity of our loan portfolio and our sources of funding would magnify the effect of any imbalance in interest rates, also representing a liquidity risk if we fail to obtain funding on an ongoing basis. In addition, since part of our funding comes from securities denominated in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies that we issue abroad, any devaluation of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar or such other foreign currencies would increase the cost of funding in relation to these securities. An increase in our total cost of funds for any of these reasons could result in an increase in the interest rates on our loans, which could, as a result, affect our ability to attract new customers and expand our loan business. Our risk management system may not be sufficient to avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to granting loans, part of our financial portfolio consists of trading transactions by our treasury division. Accordingly, changes in interest rates, securities prices, currency exchange rates and other indices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial success depends on, among other factors, our ability to accurately balance the risks we take and the returns we gain from our transactions. While we focus on the identification, analysis, management and control of our risks, both in favorable and adverse market conditions, there can be no assurance that our risk management efforts will prevent us from experiencing material losses. In particular, we may experience losses that could have a material adverse effect on us if: · we are not capable of identifying all of the risks that may affect our portfolio; · our risk analysis or our measures taken in response to such risks are inadequate or inaccurate; · the markets move in an unexpected and adverse way with respect to speed, direction, strength or other aspects and our ability to manage risks in such a scenario is restricted; · our clients are affected by unforeseen events resulting in their default or losses in an amount higher than those considered in our risk analyses; and · collateral pledged in our favor is insufficient to cover our clients’ obligations to us if they default. 24 We are subject to market and operational risks associated with derivative transactions. We enter into derivative transactions primarily for hedging purposes and, on a limited basis, on behalf of customers. These transactions are subject to market and operational risks, including basis risk (the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost) and credit or default risk (the risk of insolvency or other inability of a counterparty to perform its obligations to us). Market practices and documentation for derivative transactions in Chile may differ from those in other countries. For example, documentation may not incorporate terms and conditions of derivatives transactions as commonly understood in other countries. In addition, the execution and performance of these transactions depends on our ability to develop adequate control and administration systems and to hire and retain qualified personnel. Moreover, our ability to monitor and analyze these transactions depends on our information technology systems. These factors may further increase risks associated with derivative transactions and, if they are not adequately controlled, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to counterparty risk in our banking business. We are exposed to counterparty risks in addition to credit risks associated with lending activities. Counterparty risk may arise from, for example, investing in securities of third parties, entering into derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us, or executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades from proprietary trading activities that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. If these risks give rise to losses, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our level of insurance might not be sufficient to fully cover all liabilities that may arise in the course of our business and insurance coverage might not be available in the future. We maintain insurance for losses resulting from fire, explosions, floods and electrical shorts and outages at our various buildings and facilities. We also have civil liability insurance covering material and physical losses and damages that may be suffered by third parties. We cannot assure you that our level of insurance is sufficient to fully cover all liabilities that may arise in the course of our business or that insurance will continue to be available in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance on comparable terms in the future. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we incur liabilities that are not fully covered by our insurance policies. The loss of senior management, or our inability to attract and maintain additional personnel, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to maintain our competitive position and implement our growth strategy depends on our senior management. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to be part of our management team. The loss of some of the members of our senior management or our inability to retain and attract additional personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. RISKS RELATING TO CHILE The occurrence of natural disasters in the regions where we operate could impair our ability to conduct business effectively and could impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of natural disasters such as the earthquake in 2010 as well as tsunamis and volcanic eruptions in the regions where we operate. In the event of a natural disaster, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business in the affected region, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, if a significant number of our local employees and managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. A natural disaster, such as the earthquake and tsunami in 2010, could damage some of our branches and ATMs, forcing us to close damaged facilities or locations, increased recovery costs as well as cause economic harm to our clients. A natural disaster or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on local businesses in the affected region and could result in substantial volatility or adverse harm in our business, financial condition and results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year. 25 Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile and other emerging markets. A substantial portion of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. The Chilean economy has been influenced, to varying degrees, by economic conditions in other emerging market countries. Changes in Chilean economic growth in the future or future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in emerging and developed markets, including some of our neighbor countries, or a deceleration in the economic growth of Asian or other developed nations to which Chile exports a majority of its goods, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. According to data published by the Central Bank, the Chilean economy fell by 1.7%, grew by 5.2% and grew by 6.0% in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Historically, lower economic growth has adversely affected the overall asset quality of the Chilean banking system and our loan portfolio. Below is a detailed account of the risk index of the banks in the Chilean financial system according to information published by the SBIF: Year Risk Index(1) December 31, 2009 2.4% December 31, 2010 2.5% December 31, 2011 2.4% (1) Source: The SBIF monthly consolidated financial information. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Selected Statistical Information—Risk Index of Our Loan Portfolio” for a definition of “risk index.” Our results of operations and financial condition could also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government, which has exercised and continues to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Starting in September 2008, the economic and financial crisis in the United States and Europe sparked a series of financial institution failures throughout the globe. This resulted in a liquidity crisis and a reduction in growth of the global economy as financial institutions tightened risk policies and reduced lending to banks, corporations and individuals. Consequently, Chile was affected by a strong decrease in growth during the fourth quarter of 2008 and in 2009 as its trading partners entered into recession affecting local corporate sales, employment levels, plans for investment and the price of exports. In 2010, the Chilean economy recovered with high levels of growth, low unemployment, low inflation and low interest rates that contributed to the positive trends of the banking industry during 2010. In 2011, the Chilean economy continued strengthening with higher levels of growth and lower unemployment, although there was an increase in inflation and interest rates. Nonetheless, a global financial crisis could affect the Chilean economy and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the market value of our securities. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations could also be affected by regulatory changes in administrative practices, changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean government or other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile, over which we have no control. 26 Economic and political problems encountered by other countries may adversely affect the Chilean economy, our results of operations and the market value of our securities. The market value of securities issued by Chilean companies, including banks, is to varying degrees influenced by economic and market considerations in other countries. We cannot assure you that future developments in or affecting the Chilean economy, including consequences of economic difficulties in other markets, will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Latin America, especially in Argentina and Brazil. If Argentina’s economic environment significantly deteriorates or does not improve, the economy in Chile, as both a neighboring country and a trading partner, could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years. If there are cuts in gas exports from Argentina to Chile, as there has been in prior years, it could adversely affect economic growth in Chile. This could result in the need for us to increase our allowances for loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our financial results, our results of operations and the market value of our securities. Crises and political uncertainties in other Latin American countries could also have a material adverse effect on Chile, the market value of our securities or our business. Current economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits represented 56.3%, 56.1% and 59.0% of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Large-denominations in time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. Limitations on liquidity triggered by the world economic crisis starting in 2008 has impacted global markets and affected sources of funding, including time deposits. As of December 31, 2011, our investment portfolio did not contain instruments (i) backed by, or otherwise related to, U.S. subprime mortgages, or (ii) with exposure to monoline financial guarantors. Although our results of operations and financial position have not suffered a significant impact as a consequence of the recent credit market instability in the U.S. and the liquidity available in the Chilean market has permitted us to fund our operations and maintain our regular business activities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue funding our business or, if so, maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Recent Developments in the Banking Industry”. Deceleration of economic growth in Asia, the United States and other developed nations may have an adverse effect on the Chilean economy, on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our ADSs and common shares. We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States and other developed nations, including the global economic world crisis that still affects part of the world, especially Europe. If these nations’ economic environments deteriorate, the economy in Chile could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the market value of our securities. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our ADSs and common shares. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our securities. The Chilean peso has been subject to significant devaluations in the past and could be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. As of December 31, 2008, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 28.0% as compared to 2007. In 2009, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 20.4% as compared to 2008. As of December 31, 2010, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 7.8% as compared to 2009. As of December 2011, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 11.0 % as compared to 2010. 27 Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the Chilean peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate gaps. Entering into forward exchange transactions enables us to reduce the negative impact of material gaps between the balances of our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, the gap between foreign currency denominated assets and foreign currency denominated liabilities, excluding derivatives, was Ch$(279,942.0) million, Ch$(444,175.0) and Ch$ (23,560) million, respectively. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate gaps. Regulations that limit such gaps may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate gaps will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the Chilean peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service our foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate gaps, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the Chilean peso against the dollar could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Trading transactions in Chile of the common shares underlying our ADSs are denominated in Chilean pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our common shares are received in Chilean pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will be reduced. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. Chile’s banking regulatory and capital markets environment is continually evolving and may change. Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the financial system are continually evolving and changing. In 2007, new regulations governing the Chilean capital markets were approved (Reforma al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2)). These regulations, among other things, modified certain provisions set forth in the Decree with Force of Law No. 3 of 1997, as amended, or the General Banking Law. Under new legislation, the limit on the amount that a bank is allowed to grant as an unsecured loan to a single individual or entity was increased to 10.0% of its regulatory capital (and up to 30.0% of its regulatory capital if any loans granted in excess of the 10.0% is secured by certain collateral). Previously, these limits were set at 5.0% and 2.05%, respectively. Although any such increase may increase our lending activity, it may also increase the risks associated with the growth of our loan portfolio and increase competition as the number of banks that can compete in the corporate banking sector increases. In June 2010, additional regulations governing the Chilean capital markets, called Reforma al Mercado de Capitales III (also known as MK3), were approved. MK3, among other things, allows non-Chilean banks with representative offices in Chile to directly promote the credit products and services of their parent companies. Previously, these representative offices could only act as intermediaries between their parent companies and local companies. This change may further increase competition by increasing the number of banks that can compete directly in Chile. During 2011, several bills were proposed to modify the maximum interest rate a bank may charge, which currently is calculated as the average rate of all transactions made within the banking industry over the previous month, multiplied by a factor of 1.5. While one bill proposes to modify the factor to 1.36, another would set the maximum interest rate equivalent to three times the Monetary Policy Rate, or MPR, as determined by the Central Bank. Recent discussions are leading to a consensus solution which could set the maximum interest rate for these types of loans at approximately 25.0%. If any of the proposed bills were passed in its current form it would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 28 Inflation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation in Chile gained momentum in 2008, reaching 7.1%. However, economic activity slowed significantly in 2009, resulting in 1.4% deflation. Economic growth increased in 2010, ending the year with 3.0% inflation, in part supported by additional government and private sector spending to finance the reconstruction work required to restore Chile’s productive capacity and financial aid to the areas affected by the 2010 earthquake and tsunami. During 2010, GDP grew by 5.2%. During 2011, GDP grew by 6.0% and the inflation rate increased by 4.4%. The Central Bank increased the interbank rate from 1.23% in July 2010 to 5.24% in July 2011 in response to an increase in inflation expectations driven by increased economic activity. In 2011, the average interbank rate was 4.7%. High levels of inflation or deflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased regulation of the financial services industry in Chile could increase our costs and result in lower profits. As a result of the recent financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, novel regulatory proposals are abound in the current environment. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. Although we currently comply with the minimum regulatory capital ratio required under the Chilean banking regulation, no assurance can be given that in the future we will need to inject additional capital to our business if such regulation is amended. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. A worsening of labor relations in Chile could impact our business. As of December 31, 2011, on a consolidated basis we had 3,461 employees, of which 42.8% were unionized. Corpbanca’s current labor agreement with four of its unions will expire on December 19, 2019. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally enjoyed good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not result in increased employee or labor costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any downgrading of Chile’s debt credit rating for domestic and international debt by international credit rating agencies may also affect our ratings, our business, our future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Any adverse revisions to Chile’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies may adversely affect our ratings, and, as a result, our cost of funding, including interest rates paid on our deposits and securities. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States. As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the SBIF unaudited consolidated and unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any related footnote disclosure on a monthly basis. As of January 2008, the statements have to be prepared in accordance with Circular No. 3,410 “Compendium of Accounting Standards” and the rules of the SBIF. The SBIF also makes summary financial information available within four weeks of receipt. Although Chilean banks are required to apply IFRS as issued by the IASB as of January 1, 2009, certain exceptions introduced by the SBIF prevent banks from achieving full convergence. In those situations which are not addressed by the guidance issued by the SBIF, institutions must follow the generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Association of Chilean Accountants, which coincide with IFRS as issued by the IASB. However, our consolidated annual financial statements as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 have been prepared under IFRS as issued by the IASB in order to comply with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") requirements. 29 The securities laws of Chile, which govern open, or publicly listed, companies such as ours, have as a principal objective promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some important respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken, and (5) the members of the audit committee meet the Exchange Act Rule 10A-3(b)(1) independence requirements. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to investors in companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance” for a comparison of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange and Chilean practice. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls” for a discussion of the types of information required to be provided. Owners of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be converted into U.S. dollars and distributed net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35.0% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean laws or regulations, the depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors may receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends could be imposed in the future and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. Increase in income tax rate. Like all Chilean companies, we are subject to income tax at a rate of 17.0% of our taxable income. Since the earthquake and tsunami of 2010, the Chilean government has found it necessary to raise funds in order to finance the reconstruction efforts of the affected areas. As a result, the income tax rate has been temporarily increased to 20.0% in 2011 and will be reduced to 18.5% in 2012, returning to 17.0% in 2013. 30 RISKS RELATING TO THE PENDING BANCO SANTANDER COLOMBIA ACQUISITION We will face financial risks due to our increased level of debt and challenging market conditions. Our consolidated liabilities following the Banco Santander Colombia acquisition also include any outstanding Banco Santander Colombia indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, the total long-term indebtedness of Banco Santander Colombia was US$3,375.0 million. Our increased level of debt could have significant consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to engage in future acquisitions or development activities or otherwise realize opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of interest and principal on our debt or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; · requiring us to issue additional equity (possibly under unfavorable conditions); and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our ability to repay our outstanding indebtedness will depend upon market conditions, our financial condition and results of our operations. We may fail to realize the anticipated business growth opportunities, increased profits and other benefits anticipated from the Banco Santander Colombia acquisition. The value of the ADRs could be adversely affected to the extent we fail to realize the benefits we hope to achieve from the acquisition of Banco Santander Colombia. Achieving such benefits will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to run a business outside Chile and to successfully combine our activities and those of Banco Santander Colombia, two companies of considerable size that functioned independently and were incorporated in different countries, with geographically dispersed operations, and with different business cultures and compensation structures. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our margins and adverselty affect our results of operations and financial condition. The integration process involves inherent costs and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that the Banco Santander Colombia acquisition will achieve anticipated business growth opportunities, increased profits and other benefits. We believe the consideration we intend to pay for the Banco Santander Colombia acquisition is justified, in part, by the business growth opportunities, increased profits, revenue benefits and other benefits we expect to achieve by combining our CorpBanca operations with those of Banco Santander Colombia. However, these anticipated business growth opportunities, increased profits and other benefits may not develop, and the assumptions upon which we determined the consideration we intend to pay for the Banco Santander Colombia acquisition may prove to be incorrect because, among other things, such assumptions were based on publicly available information. Further, anticipated benefits may be adversely affected by a negative reaction of customers to the acquisition. Implementation of the acquisition and the successful integration of Banco Santander Colombia will also require a significant amount of management time and, thus, may affect or impair management’s ability to run our business effectively during the period of the acquisition and integration. In addition, we may not have, or be able to retain, employees with the appropriate skill sets for the tasks associated with our integration plan, which could adversely affect the integration of Banco Santander Colombia. In addition, employee departures and early retirements in the process of achieving synergies and company integration may create management challenges in respect of the businesses that have been acquired. Any failures, material delays or unexpected costs of the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 31 The Banco Santander Colombia acquisition is subject to the review and authorization of various governmental authorities, which may impose conditions that could have an unfavorable impact on CorpBanca and Banco Santander Colombia. On March 30, 2012, the SBIF authorized CorpBanca to acquire Banco Santander Colombia S.A. and its subsidiaries “Santander Investment Valores Colombia, S.A.”, “Santander Investment Trust Colombia, S.A.” and “Agencia de Seguros Santander Ltda.”, subject to certain conditions. The acquisition will be consummated in two steps. In the first step, CorpBanca will acquire a 51.0% interest in Banco Santander Colombia’s shares, and in the second step CorpBanca will acquire an additional 48.2% interest in Banco Santander Colombia’s shares, as well as the shares of the following subsidiaries of Banco Santander Colombia: “Santander Investment Valores Colombia, S.A.”, “Santander Investment Trust Colombia, S.A.” and “Agencia de Seguros Santander Ltda.” Pursuant to the authorization of the SBIF, prior to the first step of the transaction, CorpBanca must increase its capital by at least US$200.0 million. The capital increase must result in a capital adequacy ratio of at least 10.0% on the date of the first step of the transaction and CorpBanca must maintain a capital adequacy ratio of at least 10.0% on the date of the second step of the transaction. Additionally, CorpBanca must obtain authorization from the Chilean Central Bank and enter into a supervision agreement with the SBIF and the Colombian Finance Superintendency (Superintendencia Financiera Colombiana) before the first step of the transaction. Accordingly, the Banco Santander Colombia acquisition is subject to review, authorization and supervision of the SBIF, the Chilean Central Bank and the Colombian Finance Superintendency. We may not be able to satisfy the conditions imposed by such regulators and, as such, the acquisition may not occur. Moreover, such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in addressing the challenges and risks presented by our operations in countries outside Chile. We intend to operate banking businesses outside our historical home market of Chile. On December 31, 2011, Banco Santander Colombia’s total assets, total liabilities and shareholders’ equity represented 23.3%, 22.9% and 28.5% of our total assets, total liabilities and shareholders’ equity, respectively. Banco Santander Colombia’s operations may involve risks to which we have not previously been exposed. Banco Santander Colombia’s business is focused on retail banking as well as wholesale and commercial banking. The product and services offered by Banco Santander Colombia include savings, current accounts, fixed-term deposits, credit and debit cards, consumer and commercial loans, mortgages, cash management, foreign trade, financial assessment and as well as providing other banking services to business and individuals. On December 31, 2011, Banco Santander Colombia’s consumer loan portfolio totaled US$910.0 million (including vehicles and other personal loans), which represented 34.0% of Banco Santander Colombia’s total loan portfolio, and US$148.0 million in residential mortgage loans, which represented 6.0% of Banco Santander Colombia’s total loan portfolio. We have limited experience conducting credit card and consumer finance businesses in countries outside Chile. Accordingly, we may not be successful in managing credit card and consumer finance operations outside of our traditional domestic market in Chile. We may face delays in payments by customers and higher delinquency rates in Colombia, which could necessitate higher provisions for loan losses and, consequently, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. We intend to depend on Banco Santander Colombia’s current senior management, and the loss of their services would have a material adverse effect on our business in Colombia. We intend to retain a majority of the current senior management of Banco Santander Colombia, who have worked a significant amount of years at Banco Santander Colombia and/or in the banking industry. The loss of services of any of these senior officers could have an adverse effect on our future business in Colombia. 32 Adverse economic and political conditions in Colombia may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Colombia is subject to economic, political and other uncertainties, including changes in monetary, exchange control and trade policies that could affect the overall business environment in Colombia, which would, in turn, have an impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Central Bank of Colombia could sharply raise or lower interest rates, which could negatively affect our net interest income and asset quality and also restrict our growth. Extreme variations in exchange rates could also negatively affect the foreign currency position of our borrowers. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Decreases in the growth rate of the Colombian economy, periods of negative growth, or material increases in inflation or interest rates could result in lower demand for, or affect the pricing of, our services and products. The Colombian economy remains vulnerable to external shocks. A significant decline in economic growth of any of Colombia’s major trading partners – in particular, the United States and Venezuela – could have a material adverse effect on the country’s balance of trade and economic growth. In addition, a “contagion” effect, under which an entire region or class of investments becomes less attractive to, or subject to outflows of funds by international investors, could negatively affect Colombia. Lower economic growth may result in deterioration in the quality of our assets. The recent global economic and financial crisis, which began in the U.S. financial system and spread to different economic sectors and countries around the world, has had negative effects on the Colombian economy. During 2009, the economies of the United States and some European countries contracted, which, in turn, impacted the Colombian economy. Although there have recently been signs of recovery in the global economy, this recovery may be fragile and also may reflect temporary benefits from government stimulus programs that may not be sustained. The ability of certain countries, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy and companies in those countries and in the Euro zone to repay debt obligations remains uncertain. Exports from Colombia recently have been growing at a slower rate than in prior years, and unemployment continues to be high compared to other economies in Latin America. We cannot assure you that the growth achieved over the past decade by the Colombian economy will continue in future periods. The effect on consumer confidence of any actual or perceived deterioration in the Colombian economy may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Colombia has experienced internal security issues that have had or could have in the future a negative effect on the Colombian economy. Colombia has experienced internal security issues, primarily due to the activities of guerrilla groups such as the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, or FARC, paramilitary groups and drug cartels. In remote regions of the country with minimal governmental presence, these groups have exerted influence over the local population and funded their activities by protecting, and rendering services to drug traffickers. Even though the Colombian government’s “democratic security” program has reduced guerilla and criminal activity, particularly in the form of terrorism attacks, homicides, kidnappings and extortion, such activity persists in Colombia, and possible escalation of such activity and the effects associated with them have had and may have in the future a negative impact on the Colombian economy and on our operations in Colombia, including its customers, employees, results of operations and financial condition. 33 Tensions with Venezuela and Ecuador may affect the Colombian economy and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. Diplomatic relations with Venezuela and Ecuador, two of Colombia’s main trading partners, have from time to time been tense and affected by events surrounding the Colombian armed forces combat of the FARC throughout Colombia, particularly on Colombia’s borders with Venezuela and Ecuador. Any further deterioration in relations with Venezuela and Ecuador may result in the closing of borders, the imposition of trade barriers or a breakdown of diplomatic ties, any of which could have a negative impact on Colombia’s trade balance, economy and general security situation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Government policies and actions, and judicial decisions, in Colombia could significantly affect the local economy and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition of our business in Colombia. The results of operations and financial condition of our business in Colombia may be adversely affected by changes in Colombian governmental policies and actions, and judicial decisions, involving a broad range of matters, including interest rates, exchange rates, exchange controls, inflation rates, taxation, banking and pension fund regulations and other political or economic developments affecting Colombia. The Colombian government has historically exercised substantial influence over the economy, and its policies are likely to continue to have a significant effect on Colombian companies. The president of Colombia has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions relating to the economy, and may adopt policies that could negatively affect our business in Colombia. Future governmental policies and actions, or judicial decisions, could adversely impact the results of operations or financial condition of our business in Colombia. New or higher taxes resulting from changes in tax regulations or the interpretation thereof in Colombia could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. New tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties with respect to future tax policies, pose risks to Colombian companies. In recent years, Colombian tax authorities have imposed additional taxes in a variety of areas, such as taxes on financial transactions and taxes to fund Colombia’s war against terrorism. Changes in tax-related laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof, can affect tax burdens by increasing tax rates and fees, creating new taxes, limiting tax deductions, and eliminating tax-based incentives and non-taxed income. In addition, tax authorities or courts may interpret tax regulations differently than companies do, which could result in tax litigation and associated costs and penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters in Colombia could disrupt businesses and impact results of operations and financial condition of companies. Companies are exposed to natural disasters in Colombia, such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tornadoes, tropical storms and hurricanes. Recently, heavy rains in Colombia, attributable in part to the La Niña weather pattern, have resulted in severe flooding and mudslides. La Niña is a recurring weather phenomenon and it may contribute to flooding, mudslides or other natural disasters on an equal or greater scale in the future. In the event of a natural disaster, our disaster recovery plans may prove to be ineffective, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct our businesses, particularly if such an occurrence affects computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems or destroys customer or other data. In addition, if a significant number of our future employees and senior managers in Colombia were unavailable because of a natural disaster, our ability to conduct our businesses could be compromised. Natural disasters or similar events could also result in substantial volatility to results of operations in Colombia for any fiscal quarter or year. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our ADSs and common shares. A lack of liquidity in the markets may develop for our ADSs, which would negatively affect the ability of the holders to sell our ADSs or the price at which holders of our ADSs will be able to sell them. Future trading prices of our ADSs will depend on many factors including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and the market for similar securities. 34 Our common shares underlying the ADSs are listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic Exchange, although the trading market for the common shares is small by international standards. As of December 31, 2011, we had 250,358,194,234 common shares. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. In addition, according to Article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18,045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros, or the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on the Chilean stock exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. Furthermore, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10.0% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it is deemed necessary. These and other factors may substantially limit your ability to sell the common shares underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. Certain actions by our principal shareholder may have an adverse effect on the future market value of our ADSs and common shares and may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders. The controlling shareholder of Corp Group Banking S.A. is Mr. Alvaro Saieh Bendeck. As of December 31, 2011, together with members his family, Mr. Saieh Bendeck maintains in an indirect ownership of 75.6% of Corp Group Banking S.A. and approximately 51.2% of CorpBanca’s outstanding common shares through such holding company and also through other investment companies such as Compañía Inmobiliaria y de Inversiones Saga S.A., a company owned by Mr. Saieh Bendeck and his family. The sale or disposition by Mr. Saieh Bendeck of our ADSs or common shares that he indirectly owns, or the perception in the marketplace that such a sale or disposition may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our shares on the Santiago Stock Exchange and, consequently, the market value of the ADSs. In addition, Mr. Saieh Bendeck holds shares with sufficient voting power under Chilean law to approve substantially all of the forms of corporate action subject to decision by shareholders’ meetings, including the distribution of dividends, to elect a majority of the nine members of our board of directors, direct our management and control substantially all matters that are to be decided by a vote of shareholders, including fundamental corporate transactions. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Corporations Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common shares for cash, we are obligated by law to grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including the depositary on behalf of the holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. However, we may not be able to offer shares to United States holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future issuance of common shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Act, is effective with respect to such rights and common shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act is available. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Estatutos Sociales, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. 35 Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary. Under Chilean law, a shareholder is required to be registered in our shareholders’ registry at least five business days before a shareholders’ meeting in order to vote at such meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement and accordingly is not entitled to vote at shareholders’ meetings because the shares underlying the ADSs will be registered in the name of the depositary. While a holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs in accordance with the procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In certain instances, a discretionary proxy may vote our shares underlying the ADSs if a holder of ADSs does not instruct the depositary with respect to voting. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We are organized under the laws of Chile, and none of our directors, officers or controlling persons reside in the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in Chile. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Chile, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of United States courts, of liabilities based solely on the United States federal securities laws. 