Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of those risks and their potential impact on our business. For additional information about factors that may affect our business, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our ability to obtain new contracts and the timing of the award and performance of any such contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our cash flow and profitability. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from project-based work. It is generally very difficult to predict whether and when we will be awarded contracts for significant projects, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow and profitability. We expect to have a higher percentage of revenues from large-scale projects going forward, further exacerbating the unpredictability of our operating results. For example, the Path 15 project, which was an approximately $90.0 million contract, was substantially completed in 2004. We do not currently have any other comparably large contract awards, and there can be no assurance that we will be awarded contracts for other similar projects to replace the revenues and profits that were generated from the Path 15 contract. In certain circumstances, customers require us to provide credit enhancements, including surety bonds, letters of credit and, in rare instances, cash collateral, 14 which we may be unable to satisfactorily obtain or provide, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to providers with more liquidity. In addition, to the extent such credit enhancements are provided, our liquidity could be significantly reduced, which may negatively impact our ability to secure additional contracts. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing and other contingencies that may delay or result in termination of projects. The uncertainty of our contract award timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. In some cases, we maintain and bear the cost of a ready workforce that is larger than necessary in anticipation of future workforce needs for expected contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Delays by our customers in obtaining required approvals for their infrastructure projects may delay their awarding contracts for those projects and, once awarded, the ability to commence construction under those contracts. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to downturns in the industries we serve, which may result in extended periods of low demand for our services. The demand for infrastructure services in the industries we serve has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. A number of other factors, including financial conditions in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. For example, we have experienced reductions in our revenues from independent power producers since 2003, which reflect the significant decline in construction activity and new construction awards for power generation projects. The demand for our services to natural gas distribution customers is affected by the level of industrial, commercial and residential construction in the geographic areas we serve. In addition, our petrochemical customers’ demand has recently been restrained by the impact of high natural gas prices. We are also dependent on the amount of infrastructure services that our customers outsource. During downturns in the economy, our customers may determine to outsource fewer projects resulting in decreased demand for our services. In addition, the historical trend toward outsourcing of infrastructure services may not continue as we expect. As a result, demand for our services could decline substantially for extended periods, particularly during economic downturns, which could decrease our revenues, margins, profits and cash flows. Our participation in fixed-price contracts could result in contract losses, which could reduce our profitability. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, the majority of our revenues under fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the entire project for a fixed price on an agreed upon schedule. We may be unable to recover any cost overruns above the approved contract price. For example in the past, we have experienced delays and additional costs from severe weather conditions and the required replacement of third-party defective materials, which we were unable to recover. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded a $10.1 million loss, after giving effect to assumed claims collections, on one of our fixed-price underground utility construction projects. The loss resulted from lower than expected productivity, higher materials costs and unforeseen delays. These and other factors, such as increased fuel and labor costs, could adversely affect our profitability on fixed price contracts. The claims resolution process is often lengthy, can require legal action to conclude and the ultimate amount to be collected is difficult to estimate. Our actual revenue and profit for any particular project will usually differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on the project. Depending on the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Our acquisition of ITS has resulted in an increase in the proportion of our fixed-price contracts, as most of ITS’s business is 15 performed on a fixed-price basis. We expect that industry trends will also increase the proportion of our fixed-price contracts. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As more fully discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, all of which are included elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using primarily the cost-to-cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on our fixed-price contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Estimated contract losses for the full term of the contract are recognized when determined, regardless of where we are in the contract cycle, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. For example, we recognized a loss of $8.5 million during the second quarter of 2005 which had increased to $10.1 million, after giving effect to assumed claims collections, as of December 31, 2005 for a project that began in January 2005 and was substantially completed in November 2005. For any estimated contract loss, the actual final loss is generally based on the amount of claims we submit to, and successfully collect from the customer. Therefore, our ultimate loss may exceed our estimates. We record revenue up to costs incurred on claims and unapproved change orders when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Profit related to those costs is recorded in the period such amounts are agreed to with the customer. The timing and amount of actual collection of claims and unapproved change orders could differ from estimates, could take longer than anticipated and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. Further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which is generally during the latter stages of the contract. As of December 31, 2005, we had $12.4 million of unrecovered contract claims booked on our balance sheet under “Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings”. Claims settlements less than the $12.4 million balance would result in a reduction of our profits. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small group of customers. The loss of one or more of these customers could negatively impact our revenues. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 46% and 45% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively, which includes work performed for those customers as a subcontractor through others. Revenues from Exelon accounted for 17% and 18% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In September 2003, we entered into a volume agreement with Exelon, pursuant to which Exelon committed to provide us with a level of work roughly equivalent to the amount of work which we would have received through 2006 if 2003 work levels remained constant. The actual volume of work received from Exelon under the volume agreement has been significantly higher than 2003 levels; therefore, the volume requirements set forth in the volume agreement were satisfied in the fourth quarter of 2005. We may be unable to sustain our volume of business with Exelon without the benefit of the volume agreement. If we lose significant customers and are not able to replace them, we could sustain decreased revenues, margins and profits. 16 Our inability to hire or retain key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and other members of our senior management, including management at each of our subsidiaries. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. Industry-wide competition for managerial talent has increased and the loss of one or more of our key employees could have an adverse effect on our business. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We generally do not carry key-person life insurance on our employees. Skilled labor shortages and increased labor costs could negatively affect our ability to compete for new projects. We have from time-to-time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. For example, there is a shortage of engineers and linemen capable of working on and supervising the construction of high-voltage lines and substations. This shortage can be exacerbated during periods of storm restoration work. Linemen are frequently recruited across geographic regions to satisfy demand, including for storm response work. The supply of experienced engineers, linemen and supervisors may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. Further, we may not be able to allocate or hire sufficient project managers for new electric power transmission projects. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements as well as the aging utility workforce further depletes the pool of skilled labor available to us, even if we are not awarded such projects. As a result, we have recently declined to bid on certain substation projects that we could not staff adequately with experienced engineers, and in the future we may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently or to pursue new projects we consider attractive. The Energy Act may fail to spur the anticipated increased investment in electric infrastructure, which could slow our growth. Implementation of the Energy Act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. Many of the regulations implementing the components of the bill have not been promulgated and many others have only recently been finalized, and the effect of these regulations, once implemented, is uncertain. As a result, the legislation may not increase spending on electric power transmission infrastructure in a manner that will increase demand for our services. In addition, the timing of any new infrastructure investments remains uncertain. Continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Energy Act may result in slower growth in demand for our services. Seasonal and other variations, including severe weather conditions, may cause significant fluctuations in our cash flows and profitability, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall in certain periods. A significant portion of our business is performed outdoors, subjecting our results of operations to seasonal variations. Less work is performed by us in the winter months, and work is hindered during other inclement weather events. Our profitability often decreases during the winter months and during severe weather conditions because work performed during these periods is more costly to complete. Our working capital needs are influenced by the seasonality of our business. Generally, we experience a need for additional working capital during the spring when we increase our level of outdoor construction in weather-affected regions of the country, and we convert working capital assets to cash during the winter months. In addition, during periods of peak electricity demand, utilities generally are unable to remove their electric power transmission and distribution equipment from service, decreasing the demand for our maintenance services during these periods. Significant disruptions in our ability to perform services because of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. 17 Our backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Our customers often have no obligation to assign work to us and many of our contracts may be terminated on short notice. Our backlog may not be realized as revenue or, if realized, may not result in profits. Backlog is often difficult to determine with certainty. In addition, the backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue we expected. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. We cannot assure you as to our customers’ requirements or our estimates. Certain of our customers assign work to us under MSAs. Under these arrangements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign work to us. Most of our contracts, including our MSAs, may be terminated by our customers on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, sometimes less, or may be negatively impacted by the utilities’ inability to recover their costs in the rates they are authorized to charge their customers. Moreover, our reported backlog includes estimated work to be performed under these agreements. Our backlog may not be realized as revenues if these contracts are cancelled. In addition, many of our contracts, including our MSAs, are open to competitive bidding at the expiration of their terms. As a result, we have been displaced on contracts by competitors from time to time. Our revenues could materially decline if our customers do not assign work to us or if they cancel a significant number of contracts and we cannot replace them with similar contracts. Project delays or cancellations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. Failure to meet any of these schedules or performance requirements could result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and these amounts could exceed expected project profit margins. Many of our projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes up to two years. We may encounter difficulties in engineering, equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. For example, the recent increase in demand for transmission services has strained production resources, creating significant lead-time for obtaining transmission towers and poles. As a result, our electric transmission project revenues could be significantly reduced or delayed due to the difficulty we or our customers may experience in obtaining required materials. In addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. Any delay by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project, or any failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily complete its portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. We also may encounter project delays due to local public opposition against the siting of transmission lines or other facilities, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests. For example, the construction of the Arrowhead to Weston transmission line project between Minnesota and Wisconsin was delayed for several years due to such factors, and some delays in this project continue to occur. Delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the project customer for these delays. We may not be able to recover all of these costs. In extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. Such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or our relationships with customers, making it more difficult for us to secure new contracts. 18 In addition, our project contracts may require that our customers or other parties provide us with design or engineering information or with equipment or materials to be used on a project. In some cases, we may be provided with deficient design or engineering information or equipment or provided with information or equipment later than required by the project schedule. Our customers may also determine, after commencement of the project, to change various elements of the project. Under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. We are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely provide items required to be provided by the customer. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit that were recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Any such adjustments could be substantial. Provisions of our credit facility restrict our business operations and may restrict our access to sufficient funding, including letters of credit, to finance desired growth. We have a credit facility with a group of financial institutions secured by substantially all of our assets. The credit facility contains customary events of default and covenants that limit us from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In addition, our credit facility requires us to achieve certain financial ratios as described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” These restrictions and covenants may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us, including strategic acquisitions. Covenants in our credit facility also restrict our ability to incur indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions, including domestic intercompany indebtedness, guarantee obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, up to $20.0 million of secured indebtedness incurred to acquire fixed or capital assets, indebtedness with respect to performance bonds, letters of credit and similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, and up to $40.0 million of additional indebtedness. We had $52.7 million of availability under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility as of December 31, 2005 (after giving effect to $32.3 million of outstanding letters of credit under the credit facility at that date). In the future, we may require substantial additional working capital to fund our growth. However, there is no assurance that we will be able expand availability under our credit agreement or obtain other sources of liquidity in a timely manner, at favorable cost or at all. Our business frequently requires us to post letters of credit, which reduces availability under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility. If we are required to post letters of credit in excess of the $68.0 million sublimit in effect as of December 31, 2005 under our credit facility, we would be required either to increase this sublimit or cash collateralize the letters of credit. We cannot assure you that we would be able to increase the sublimit under our credit facility or that we would have sufficient cash to obtain the required letters of credit. A breach of our credit facility, including our inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in an event of default. Upon an event of default under our credit facility, the lenders would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, the lenders would have the option to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under our credit facility. Upon the event of a default under any of our secured indebtedness, including our credit facility which is secured by substantially all of our assets, the lenders could proceed to foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. 19 On June 10, 2005, while in the process of evaluating the extent of the loss for an underground utility construction project, we obtained a Second Amendment and Waiver to our credit facility which excluded the effect of the anticipated loss in certain of our representations and warranties and waived any misrepresentation in our financial statements and covenant compliance certificates through July 25, 2005 to the extent resulting therefrom. Based on our further evaluation of the loss, estimated to be $10.1 million, after giving effect to assumed claims collection, we are currently not required to enter into any further amendment or waiver of our credit facility with respect to such loss. We are subject to acquisition risks. If we are not successful in integrating companies that we acquire or have acquired, we may not achieve the expected benefits and our profitability could suffer. In addition, the cost of evaluating and pursuing acquisitions may not result in a corresponding benefit. One of our business strategies is to pursue strategic acquisitions. We completed several acquisitions during 2004 and 2005 and continue to consider strategic acquisitions now and plan to in the future, some of which may be larger than those previously completed and could be material acquisitions. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and delays or other operational or financial problems may result that interfere with our operations. In addition, our operating subsidiaries have generally maintained their own procedures and operating systems, which make it more difficult for us to evaluate and integrate their systems and controls on a reliable company-wide basis. If we fail to implement proper overall business controls for companies we acquire or fail to successfully integrate these acquired companies in our processes, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, it is possible that we may incur significant expenses in the evaluation and pursuit of potential acquisitions and that such acquisitions may not be successfully completed. In these events, we may incur substantial costs without any corresponding benefit. For example, during 2005 we incurred a $1.6 million charge related to due diligence costs for an acquisition that we chose not to complete. Other risks inherent in our acquisition strategy include diversion of management’s attention and resources, failure to retain key personnel and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. In addition, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” we are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances exist which indicate that goodwill may be impaired. As a result of changes in circumstances after valuing assets in connection with acquisitions, we may be required to take write­downs of intangible assets, including goodwill, which could be significant. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact thereof on our operations or the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that our system of internal controls will be effective in the future as our operations and control environment change. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, our financial reporting may be inaccurate. If reporting errors actually occur, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. These results could adversely affect our financial results or the market price of our common stock. We are evaluating the implementation of a company-wide Enterprise Resource Planning system which could disrupt our day-to-day operations temporarily. We are evaluating the implementation of a company-wide information technology system or Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. The ERP system is intended to replace disparate individual information systems at our operating subsidiaries for functions such as accounting and finance, human resources and customer relationships with a common, uniform information system. Development 20 and implementation of an ERP system would require substantial financial and personnel resources. While the ERP system is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, large scale implementation of new information systems across all of our operating companies exposes us to the risks of start up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. In addition, if we fail to implement the ERP system we will have to continue to rely on the disparate information systems at our operating subsidiaries. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to obtain surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Surety market conditions are currently difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent periods, both in the construction industry as well as in certain larger corporate bankruptcies. As a result, less bonding capacity is available in the market and terms have become more expensive and restrictive. We are required to post letters of credit to support our surety bond program. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time. Historically, approximately 10% to 20% of our annual volume of business, including a number of our fixed-price contracts, has required bonds. These percentages may increase depending on our mix of contracts. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our surety’s assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety provider to decline to issue, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions can be taken on short notice. If our surety provider were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to provide these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. Higher fuel prices and material costs may increase our cost of doing business, and we may not be able to pass those added costs to our customers. Our spending on fuel has increased significantly over the last 12 months. Under our fixed-price contracts, we are limited in our ability to pass these higher fuel costs to our customers. In addition, even if we are able to incorporate the higher cost of fuel and materials into new project contracts, higher overall project costs may depress the market for large-scale infrastructure projects. Therefore, higher fuel and material costs may directly or indirectly negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risks associated with being a government contractor. We are a provider of services to government agencies, primarily the DOE’s federal power marketing agencies, such as the BPA. Therefore, we are exposed to the risks associated with government contracting. For example, a reduction in spending by government agencies could limit the continued funding of existing contracts with these agencies and could limit our ability to obtain additional contracts, which could result in lower revenues from these customers. The risks of government contracting also include the risk of civil and criminal fines and penalties for violations of applicable regulations and statutes and the risk of public scrutiny of our performance on high profile sites. In addition, our failure to comply with the terms of one or more of our government contracts, other government agreements or government regulations and statutes could result in our being suspended or barred from future government contract projects for a significant period of time. In addition, government customers typically can terminate or modify their contracts with us at their convenience, and some of these government contracts are subject to renewal or extension annually. If a government customer terminates a contract or fails to renew or extend a contract, our backlog or revenue 21 may be reduced or we may incur a loss, either of which could impair our financial condition and operating results. A termination due to our unsatisfactory performance could expose us to liability and adversely affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In cases where we are a subcontractor, the prime contract could be terminated, regardless of the quality of our services as a subcontractor or our relationship with the relevant government agency. Our government customers can also reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract and control and potentially prohibit the export of our services and associated materials. Our projects are subject to numerous hazards. If we do not maintain an adequate safety record, we may be ineligible to bid on certain projects, could be terminated from existing projects and could have difficulty procuring adequate insurance. Hazards experienced as a result of our activities include electrocutions, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failure, transportation accidents and damage to equipment we work on. These hazards can cause and have caused personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages, including blackouts, and may result in suspension of operations, large damage claims, and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. At any given time, we are subject to multiple workers’ compensation and personal injury claims resulting from such hazards or other workplace accidents. We maintain substantial loss accruals for workers’ compensation claims. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our third-party insurance is subject to large deductibles for which we establish reserves and, accordingly, we effectively self-insure for much of our exposures. In addition, for a variety of reasons such as increases in claims, a weak economy, projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, lost compensation and reductions in coverage, insurance carriers may be unwilling to provide the current levels of coverage without a significant increase in collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates or meet collateral requirements. Further, regulatory changes implemented by OSHA could impose additional costs on us. Our safety record is an important consideration for our customers. If serious accidents or fatalities occur or our safety record were to deteriorate, we may be ineligible to bid on certain projects and could be terminated from existing projects. In addition, our reputation and our prospects for future projects could be negatively affected. The OSHA recordable rate of one of our transmission construction subsidiaries has historically been higher than the industry average. If we cannot improve on this subsidiary’s safety record, we may not be able to bid successfully on future projects. As is common in our industry, we regularly have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries. Our unionized workforce could cause interruptions in our provision of services. In addition, we contribute to multiemployer plans that could result in liabilities to us if these plans are terminated or we withdraw. A significant percentage of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages could occur that would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and our ability to conduct our business. We contribute to several multiemployer pension plans for employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. These plans are not administered by us, and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of negotiated labor contracts. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, as amended by the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are contributors to a multiemployer plan in the event of the employer’s withdrawal from, or upon termination of, such plan. We do not have information on the net assets and actuarial present value of the multiemployer pension plans’ unfunded vested benefits allocable to us, if 22 any, or the amounts, if any, for which we may be contingently liable if we were to withdraw from any of these plans. If Congress or the FCC changes the law or regulations that provide subsidies for telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health-care facilities, demand for some of our telecommunications services could decrease substantially. Furthermore, additional regulation of our telecommunications services could reduce the profitability of those services. Many of our telecommunications customers benefit from the Universal Service ‘‘E-rate’’ program, which was established by Congress in the 1996 Telecommunications Act and is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company, or USAC, under the oversight of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC. To remain eligible to provide services under this program in any state, we must maintain our telecommunications authorizations in that state. Under the E-rate program, schools, libraries and certain health-care facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access, and internal connections. From time to time, bills have been introduced in Congress that would eliminate or curtail the E-rate program. If such a bill were passed, or if the FCC or USAC were to further limit E-rate subsidies, it could result in a decrease in the demand for our telecommunications infrastructure services by certain customers. The telecommunications services that we provide are subject to regulation by the FCC to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services and, when wholly within a particular state, are subject to regulation by such state. We currently contribute to state, but not federal, universal service funds for the majority of our telecommunications services. Changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our telecommunications business. We could also be subject to fines if the FCC or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions violated its regulations. Newly adopted accounting regulations require us to expense stock options, which could cause our stock price to decline. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) recently adopted the previously proposed regulations that will eliminate the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method that we used during 2005. Generally, these new regulations require that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method and recognized as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations. The effective date for this change for us was as of January 1, 2006. Previously, we only disclosed such expenses on a pro forma basis in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, in any reporting period in which we are required to recognize an expense for share-based compensation, our earnings will be lower than if no expense had been taken. Our stock price could decline in response to any perceived decline in our reported earnings. Our principal stockholders may exercise control over the Company. As of the date hereof, our principal stockholders own approximately 61% of our common stock. We have filed, concurrently with the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, a registration statement relating to a proposed offering by our principal and other stockholders of up to 13,000,000 shares of our common stock. If this proposed offering is completed and our principal stockholders sell all shares of our common stock offered thereby, then our principal stockholders would continue to own approximately 28.6% of our common stock (or 23.7% if the underwriters’ over-allotment option is exercised in full). As a result, our principal stockholders, if they choose to act together, are able to exercise control over, and if the proposed offering is completed will still be able to exert significant influence over, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our charter and approval of significant corporate transactions. These stockholders also have, and if the proposed offering is completed will continue to have, significant influence over our management and policies. This influence may have the 23 effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem in their best interest. As of the date hereof, our principal stockholders have three representatives serving as our directors. Because our principal stockholders own more than 50% of our common stock, we currently rely on the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition independence requirements under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The “controlled company” exception does not modify the independence requirements of our audit committee. If the proposed offering is completed, our principal stockholders will no longer own more than 50% of our common stock, and, therefore, we will no longer be a “controlled company” under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, including with respect to the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition independence requirements. We currently do not satisfy some of the board of directors and committee composition independence requirements for non-controlled companies. If the proposed offering is completed, we will be required to take the necessary actions to come into compliance with the board of directors and committee composition independence requirements for non-controlled companies within the phase-in periods provided by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 