D. RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The growth and composition of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses From December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2012, the compounded annual growth rate of our aggregate gross loan portfolio was 26.6%. Our business strategy is to grow profitably while increasing the size of our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio has one segment with the highest level of risk: consumer loans. As of December 31, 2012, the risk index (ratio of allowance for loans losses over total loans) of this segment was 2.2% while other segments of our loan portfolio such as mortgage loans or commercial loans have lower risk indices, 0.4% and 1.1%, respectively. Our consumer loans have increased since June 2011 in terms of aggregate amount, and our consumer loans have increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio only since July 2012. Our consumer loans have been increasing since May 2012 in terms of both aggregate amount, and as a percentage of our total loan portfolio as a result of our acquisition of a 91.9% equity interest in Banco Santander Colombia S.A. (now known as CorpBanca Colombia). The aforementioned acquisition is hereinafter referred to as the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition. As of December 31, 2012, consumer loans represented 10.7% of our total loan portfolio. The characteristics of our consumer loan portfolio that make it susceptible to loan losses are the absence of collateral and the risk of unemployment of our consumer borrowers. We believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of the date hereof to cover all known losses in our loan portfolio. The growth of our loan portfolio (particularly in the lower-middle to middle income consumer segments) may expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish proportionately higher levels of provisions for loan losses, which offset the increased income that we can expect to receive as our loan portfolio grows. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same or similar rate Past performance of our loan portfolio may not be indicative of future performance. There can be no assurance that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same or similar rates as the growth rate that we historically experienced. A reversal of the rate of growth of the Chilean or Colombian economy, a slowdown in the growth of customer demand, an increase in market competition or changes in governmental regulations, could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. Economic turmoil could also materially and adversely affect the liquidity, businesses and financial condition of our customers, including a general decline in consumer spending and a rise in unemployment, which in turn could lead to decreased demand for borrowings in general. Our allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover the future actual losses to our loan portfolio As of December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses was Ch$109,601 million (excluding allowances for loan losses on loans and receivable to banks), and the risk index was 1.1%. The amount of allowance for loan losses is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting 8 Table of Contents the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our customers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions, the realizable value of any collateral, the prospects for support from any guarantor, Chile’s and Colombia’s economy, government macroeconomic policies, interest rates and the legal and regulatory environment. As the recent global financial crisis has demonstrated, many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, as these factors evolve, the models we use to determine the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses require recalibration, which may lead to increased provision for loan losses. We believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of the date hereof for all known losses. If our assessment of and expectations concerning the above mentioned factors differ from actual developments, or if the quality of our loan portfolio deteriorates or the future actual losses exceed our estimates, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to make additional allowances for loan losses, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our loan portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected As of December 31, 2012, our past due loans were Ch$51,272 million, which resulted in a past due loans to total loans ratio of 0.5%. As of December 31, 2012, our non-performing loans were Ch$117,937 million, which resulted in a non-performing to total loans ratio of 1.2%. We seek to continue to improve our credit risk management policies and procedures. However, we cannot assure you that our credit risk management policies, procedures and systems are free from any deficiency. Failure of credit risk management policies may result in an increase in the level of non-performing loans and adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio. In addition, the quality of our loan portfolio may also deteriorate due to various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as the macroeconomic factors affecting the Chilean or Colombian economies. If such deterioration were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Our exposure to individuals and small-to-medium sized companies could lead to higher levels of past due loans and subsequent loan losses The quality of our portfolio of loans to individuals and small-to-medium sized companies, or SMEs, is dependent to a significant extent on prevailing economic conditions in Chile and Colombia. SMEs and lower-middle to middle income individuals are more likely to be more severely affected by adverse developments in the Chilean and Colombian economies than large corporations and higher income individuals. As a result, lending to SMEs and lower-middle to middle income individuals represents a relatively higher degree of risk than lending to other market segments. A substantial number of our customers consist of individuals and SMEs. As part of our business strategy, we seek to increase lending and other services to SMEs and lower-income individuals. Our business results relating to our lower-income individual and SME customers are, however, more likely to be adversely affected by downturns in the Chilean and Colombian economies, including increases in unemployment, than our business from large corporations and high-income individuals. For example, unemployment directly affects the capacity of individuals to obtain and repay consumer loans. Consequently, this could materially and adversely affect the liquidity, business and financial condition of our customers, which may in turn cause us to experience higher levels of past due loans, which could result in higher allowances for loan losses. This may materially affect us, including our asset quality, results of operations and financial conditions. The value of any collateral securing our loans may not be sufficient, and we may be unable to realize the full value of the collateral securing our loan portfolio From time to time, we require our borrowers to collateralize their loans with guarantees, pledges of particular assets or other security. The value of any collateral securing our loan portfolio may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond our control, including macroeconomic factors affecting the Chilean and Colombian economies. The real estate market is particularly vulnerable to a negative economic climate and this may affect us as real estate represents a significant portion of the collateral securing our residential mortgages loan portfolio. We may also not have sufficiently recent information on the value of collateral, which may result in an inaccurate assessment for impairment losses of our loans secured by such collateral. If this were to occur, we may need to make additional allowance for loan losses to cover actual impairment losses of our loans, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Additionally, there are certain provisions under Chilean law No. 19,335 of 1994 that may affect the procedures for foreclosing on or liquidating residential mortgages if the residence in question has been declared as “family property” by a court because it is inhabited by the family of the mortgagor. If any party occupying the real estate files a petition with the court requesting that such real estate be declared family property, we may be delayed in foreclosing on such property. We may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy Chilean banks are required by the General Banking Law to maintain regulatory capital of at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, net of required allowance for loan losses and deductions, and basic capital of at least 3% of total assets, net of required allowance for loan losses. In connection with the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition, we have entered into an agreement to acquire up to a 100% equity interest in the common shares of Helm Bank and its consolidated subsidiaries, or Helm Bank, with the intent to merge Helm Bank with and into CorpBanca Colombia, and to acquire an 80% equity interest in Helm Corredor de Seguros S.A., or Helm Insurance. For the purposes of maintaining a high solvency classification from the SBIF and continued compliance with the SBIF’s capital requirements on us, our intention is to have the highest classification from the SBIF. Also, we have committed to have regulatory capital over 10% of risk-weighted assets for a period of one year after the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition. As of December 31, 2012, the ratio of our Bank for International Settlements, or BIS, capital-weighted assets ratio was 11.2%. Certain developments could affect our ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to us, including: • the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of our business, • the failure to increase our capital correspondingly, • losses resulting from a deterioration in our asset quality, • declines in the value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio, • goodwill and minority interest, • changes in accounting rules, and • changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Chile. As provided in article 68 of the General Banking Law, if we fail to comply with the legal requirements relating to the maintenance of regulatory capital (which is comprised of effective net worth and basic capital, as both concepts are defined in such provision), we must comply with such legal requirements within a period of sixty days. For each day we fail to comply with such legal requirements, we may be subject to a daily penalty equal to one thousandth of the deficit of the effective net worth or basic capital, as the case may be. CorpBanca Colombia may be unable to meet requirements relating to capital adequacy Capital adequacy requirements for Colombian financial institutions (as set forth in Decree 1771 of 2012, as amended) are based on applicable Basel Committee standards. The regulations establish four categories of assets, which are each assigned different risk weights, and require that a credit institution’s Technical Capital (as defined below) be at least 9% of that institution’s total risk-weighted assets. Technical Capital for the purposes of the regulations consists of the sum of Tier One Capital (basic capital) and Tier Two Capital (additional capital), collectively, Technical Capital. As of December 31, 2012, the ratio of CorpBanca Colombia’s BIS capital to risk-weighted assets was 11.8%. Certain developments could affect CorpBanca Colombia’s ability to continue to satisfy the current capital adequacy requirements applicable to it, including: • the increase of risk-weighted assets as a result of the expansion of CorpBanca Colombia’s business, • the failure to increase CorpBanca Colombia’s capital correspondingly, • losses resulting from a deterioration in CorpBanca Colombia’s asset quality, • declines in the value of CorpBanca Colombia’s available-for-sale investment portfolio, 10 Table of Contents • goodwill and minority interest, • changes in accounting rules, and • changes in the guidelines regarding the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios of banks in Colombia. If we fail to comply with the Capital adequacy requirements for Colombian financial institutions, as a result of the Helm Bank Acquisition or any other reason, we may be subject to certain penalties, as the case may be, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We are vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets In the past few years, the global financial system has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to less liquidity, greater volatility and general widening of spreads. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the second half of 2008, and many countries, including the United States, in past years have been operating in a recessionary period. Many major financial institutions, including some of the world’s largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, have also been experiencing significant difficulties. In recent years, there have also been runs on deposits at several financial institutions, numerous institutions have sought additional capital and many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers (including to other financial institutions). In Chile and Colombia, the global economic recession in 2008 and 2009 caused an increase in unemployment, a decrease in consumer spending, a decrease in real estate prices and a general decline in economic activity. Nevertheless, the gross domestic product, or GDP, grew in Chile 5.2% in 2010, 6% in 2011 and 5.6% in 2012, accompanied by a high demand for labor and asset price increases. The Colombian GDP grew 4% in 2010, 6.6% in 2011 and 4% in 2012, accompanied by a high demand for labor and asset price increases. However, the continued economic and sovereign debt crisis in some industrialized economies, particularly in Europe, and the continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a negative impact on the performance of the Chilean economy, the Colombian economy and a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on financial terms acceptable to us, if at all. If capital markets financing ceases to become available, or becomes excessively expensive, we may be forced to raise the rates we pay on deposits to attract more customers. Any such increase in capital markets funding costs or deposit rates could have a material adverse effect on our interest margins. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect the results of our operations The Chilean and Colombian markets for financial services are highly competitive. In Chile, we compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, Banco del Estado de Chile, a state owned bank, credit unions and public social security funds (cajas de compensación) that offer consumer and other loans to a large portion of the Chilean population. The lower-middle to middle income segments of the Chilean population and the SME segments have become the target markets of several banks, and competition in these segments is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins in these segments have declined. Although we believe that demand for financial products and services from the lower-middle to middle income consumer market segments and for small and medium-sized companies will continue to grow during the remainder of the decade, our net interest margins may not be maintained at their current levels. We also face competition from non-bank and non-finance competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards, consumer loans, insurance brokerage, department stores, large supermarket chains and other financial intermediaries who are able to provide large companies with access to the capital markets as an alternative to bank loans and sell other financial products. Non-bank competition from large department stores has become increasingly significant in the consumer lending sector as many leading department store owners and operators began offering consumer credit either alone or in conjunction with various financial institutions. Since 1998, three new private sector banks affiliated with Chile’s largest department stores have initiated operations mainly as consumer and medium-sized corporate niche banks. In addition, we face competition from non-bank finance competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to loans and credit products, and from mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products and mortgage loans. Banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds in Chile, and the insurance sales business has seen rapid growth. Nevertheless, non-banking competition, especially department stores, may be able to engage in some types of advertising and promotion in which, by virtue of Chilean banking rules and regulations, we are prohibited from engaging. 11 Table of Contents The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to consolidation in the industry. Further consolidation in the industry, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger competitors, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate. An increase in the prevalence of this method of financing could reduce our market share for corporate financing and adversely affect our results of operations. Insurance companies as well as residential mortgage loan managers (Administradoras de Mutuos Hipotecarios) are allowed to participate and compete with banks in the residential mortgage and credit card businesses, further increasing competition in our industry. Furthermore, under the General Banking Law representative offices of non-Chilean banks are now allowed to promote the credit products and services of their headquarters and banks, insurance companies, retailers and other financial institutions are required to inform their customers of the all-in costs of the financial services on standardized terms allowing their customers to compare the cost of the products offered by them, all of which have increased, and may further increase, competition in our industry and, thus, have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. In Colombia, CorpBanca Colombia operates in a highly competitive environment and increased competitive conditions are to be expected in the jurisdictions where CorpBanca Colombia operates. Intensified merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better capitalized and more geographically diverse firms that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. CorpBanca Colombia’s ability to maintain its competitive position depends mainly on its ability to fulfill new customers’ needs through the development of new products and services and CorpBanca Colombia’s ability to offer adequate services and strengthen its customer base through cross-selling. CorpBanca Colombia’s and our business will be adversely affected if CorpBanca Colombia is not able to maintain efficient service strategies. In addition, CorpBanca Colombia’s efforts to offer new services and products may not succeed if product or market opportunities develop more slowly than expected or if the profitability of opportunities is undermined by competitive pressures. The effectiveness of our credit risk management is affected by the quality and scope of information available in Chile and Colombia In assessing customers’ creditworthiness, we rely largely on the credit information available from our own internal databases, the SBIF, Dicom (a privately owned company and Chilean nationwide credit data base), the Colombian Superintendency of Finance, DataCredito (a privately owned company) and CIFIN, a division of the banking association, and other sources. Due to limitations in the availability of information and the developing information infrastructure in Chile and Colombia, our assessment of the credit risks associated with a particular customer may not be based on complete, accurate or reliable information. In addition, although we have been improving our credit scoring systems to better assess borrowers’ credit risk profiles, we cannot assure you that our credit scoring systems collect complete or accurate information reflecting the actual behavior of customers or that their credit risk can be assessed correctly. Without complete, accurate and reliable information, we have to rely on other publicly available resources, which may not be complete or accurate. As a result, asset quality may be materially adversely affected. Our risk management system may not be sufficient to avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations In addition to granting loans, part of our financial portfolio consists of trading transactions by our treasury division. Accordingly, changes in interest rates, securities prices, currency exchange rates and other indices may adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial success depends on, among other factors, our ability to accurately balance the risks we take and the returns we gain from our transactions. While we focus on the identification, analysis, management and control of our risks, both in favorable and adverse market conditions, there can be no assurance that our risk management efforts will prevent us from experiencing material losses. In particular, we may experience losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if: • we are not capable of identifying all of the risks that may affect our portfolio; 12 Table of Contents • our risk analysis or our measures taken in response to such risks are inadequate or inaccurate; • the markets move in an unexpected and adverse way with respect to speed, direction, strength or other aspects and our ability to manage risks in such a scenario is restricted; • our clients are affected by unforeseen events resulting in their default or losses in an amount higher than those considered in our risk analyses; and • collateral pledged in our favor is insufficient to cover our clients’ obligations to us if they default. Since our principal sources of funds are short-term deposits, a sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in costs of funding and a material adverse effect on our revenues Deposits and other term deposits are our primary sources of funding, which represent 70.3% of our liabilities as of December 31, 2012. If a substantial number of our depositors withdraw their demand deposits or do not roll over their time deposits upon maturity, our liquidity position, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds, any money markets in which we operate will be able to maintain levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or the liquidation of certain assets. If this were to happen, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities Government economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso or the Colombian peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our securities. The Chilean peso and the Colombian peso have been subject to significant fluctuations in their value against the U.S. Dollar in the past and could be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. As of December 31, 2009, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 20.4% and the Colombian peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 8.9%, each as compared to 2008. As of December 31, 2010, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 7.8% and the Colombian peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 6.4%, each as compared to 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the Chilean peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 11% and the Colombian peso depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 1.5%, each as compared to 2010. As of December 31, 2012, the Chilean peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 8.2% and the Colombian peso appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 9%, each as compared to 2011. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the Chilean peso, the Colombian peso and the dollar despite our policy and Chilean and Colombian regulations relating to the general avoidance of material exchange rate gaps. Entering into forward exchange transactions enables us to reduce the negative impact of material gaps between the balances of our foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, the gap between foreign currency denominated assets and foreign currency denominated liabilities, excluding derivatives, was Ch$(279,942) million, Ch$(444,175), Ch$(23,560) million and Ch$241,832 million, respectively. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate gaps. Regulations that limit such gaps may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate gaps will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the Chilean peso and the Colombian peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service our foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate gaps, the economic policies of the Chilean or the Colombian governments and any future fluctuations of the Chilean peso or the Colombian peso against the dollar could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Trading transactions in Chile of the common shares underlying our ADSs are denominated in Chilean pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our common shares are received in Chilean pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will be reduced. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. 13 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent on proper functioning and improvement of information technology systems Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to accurately process a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and products in a timely manner. The proper functioning of our financial control, risk management, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems is critical to our business and our ability to compete effectively. We have backup data for our key data processing systems that could be used in the event of a catastrophe or a failure of our primary systems, and have established alternative communication networks where available. However, we cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted if there were a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology systems or communication networks. Such failures could be caused by, among other things, software bugs, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, any security breach caused by unauthorized access to information or systems, intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to remain competitive and achieve further growth will depend in part on our ability to upgrade our information technology systems and increase our capacity on a timely and cost effective basis. Any substantial failure to improve or upgrade information technology systems effectively or on a timely basis could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business in Colombia is highly dependent on a technology service agreement with Banco Santander, S.A. We entered into a technology service agreement with Banco Santander, S.A. in connection with the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition. The technology service agreement expires in June 2015; however, we have the option to extend the term of such agreement for an additional year. Our business in Colombia is highly dependent on the service and support of Banco Santander, S.A. provided to us pursuant to the technology service agreement. If Banco Santander, S.A. is unable to service and support our business in Colombia or if we are unable to integrate our information technology systems into our business in Colombia after the expiration of the technology service agreement, then such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of senior management, or our inability to attract and maintain additional personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Our ability to maintain our competitive position and implement our growth strategy depends on our senior management. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to be part of our management team. The loss of some of the members of our senior management or our inability to retain and attract additional personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of labor relations in Chile or Colombia could impact our business As of December 31, 2012, on a consolidated basis we had 3,574 employees in Chile, of which 41% were unionized and 1,566 employees in Colombia, of which 31% were unionized. CorpBanca’s current labor agreement with four of its unions in Chile will expire on December 19, 2019. CorpBanca Colombia’s current labor agreement with five of its unions in Colombia will expire on August 31, 2013. To date, CorpBanca Colombia has thirteen unions. We generally apply the terms of our collective bargaining agreement to unionized and non-unionized employees. We have traditionally enjoyed good relations with our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that in the future a strengthening of cross-industry labor movements will not result in increased employee or labor costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may experience operational problems or errors We, like all large financial institutions, are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurances that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing measures may not prevent third parties from using us as a conduit for those activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We believe that we are in compliance with applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing laws and regulations and we have adopted various policies and procedures, including internal controls and “know-your customer” procedures, aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, because we also rely on our correspondent banks having their own appropriate anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing procedures, we use what we believe are commercially reasonable procedures for monitoring our correspondent banks. However, these measures, procedures and compliance may not be entirely effective in preventing third parties from using us (and our correspondent banks) as a conduit for money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing without our (and our correspondent banks’) knowledge or consent. If we were to be associated with money laundering (including illegal cash operations) or terrorist financing, our reputation could be harmed and we could become subject to fines, sanctions or legal enforcement (including being added to any “blacklists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with us), which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Banking regulations in Chile may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We are subject to regulation by the SBIF. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank of Chile with regard to certain matters, including reserve requirements, interest rates, foreign exchange mismatches and market risks. During the Chilean financial crisis of 1982 and 1983, the Central Bank of Chile and the SBIF strictly controlled the funding, lending and general business matters of the banking industry in Chile. Pursuant to the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the SBIF, engage in certain businesses in addition to commercial banking depending on the risk associated with such business and their financial strength. Such additional businesses include securities brokerage, mutual fund management, securitization, insurance brokerage, leasing, factoring, financial advisory, custody and transportation of securities, loan collection and financial services. There can be no assurance that regulators will not in the future impose more restrictive limitations on the activities of banks, including us. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean financial system, which is a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices and limits the discretion of the SBIF to deny new banking licenses. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the change of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Historically, Chilean banks have not paid interest on amounts deposited in checking accounts. However, since June 1, 2002, the Central Bank of Chile has allowed banks to pay interest on checking accounts. We have begun to pay interest on some checking accounts under certain conditions. If competition or other factors lead us to pay higher interest rates on checking accounts, to relax the conditions under which we pay interest or to increase the number of checking accounts on which we pay interest, any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents In connection with the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition, we are required by the SBIF to maintain a BIS capital adequacy ratio of 10% until June 2013. In line with the future adoption of Basel II / Basel III regulations in Chile, the SBIF has recently disclosed a proposal to increase the minimum effective BIS capital adequacy ratio from the current 8% to 10%. This change requires an amendment to the General Banking Law by Congress, and if adopted, could require us to inject additional capital in our business in the future. The SBIF has not issued any timetable for adoption or guidance to Chilean banks regarding the adoption of Basel II or Basel III. Although we have not failed in the past to comply with our capital maintenance obligations, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, numerous novel regulatory proposals have been discussed or proposed. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We are subject to regulatory inspections and examinations We are also subject to various inspections, examinations, inquiries, audits and other regulatory requirements by Chilean and Colombian regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements and guidelines, or that we will not be subject to sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties in the future as a result of noncompliance. If sanctions, fines, restrictions on our business or other penalties are imposed on us for failure to comply with applicable requirements, guidelines or regulations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our reputation and ability to engage in business may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to protect personal information could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations We manage and hold confidential personal information of customers in the conduct of our banking operations. Although we have procedures and controls to safeguard personal information in our possession, unauthorized disclosures could subject us to legal actions and administrative sanctions as well as damages, which, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to risk of prepayment, which may result in reinvestment of assets on less profitable terms Our loan and investment portfolios are subject to prepayment risk, which results from the ability of a borrower or issuer to pay a debt obligation prior to maturity. Generally, in a declining interest rate environment, prepayment activity increases, which reduces the weighted average lives of our earning assets and adversely affects our operating results. We would also be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has an adverse impact on our loan portfolios because it could shorten the weighted average life of our loan portfolio, which may result in a mismatch in funding or reinvestment at lower yields. Exposure to government debt could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We invest in debt securities issued by the Chilean and Colombian governments, the Central Bank of Chile and the Ministry of Finance that, for the most part, are short-term and highly liquid instruments. As of December 31, 2012, 3.3% of our total assets comprised of securities issued by the Chilean government. If the Chilean or Colombian governments default on the timely payment of such securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents A further downgrade of CorpBanca’s counterparty credit rating by international or domestic credit rating agencies may also materially and adversely affect our debt credit rating for domestic and international debt, our business, our future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities Following the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition, Standard & Poor’s downgraded our credit rating from A- to BBB+ with a stable outlook. In connection with the announcement of the Helm Bank Acquisition, Standard & Poor’s placed CorpBanca’s long term debt on CreditWatch with negative implications and Moody´s changed the outlook on the ratings of CorpBanca to negative from stable. Any adverse revision to CorpBanca’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international and domestic rating agencies may adversely affect our debt ratings, and, as a result, our cost of funding, including interest rates paid on our deposits and securities. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Further downgrades of our debt would adversely affect our cost of funding related to future debt offerings. While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit ratings downgrade to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including market conditions at the time of any downgrade, whether any downgrade of a firm’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. However, we estimate that if the rating agencies were to downgrade our long-term senior debt ratings by one or two notches, it would increase our borrowing costs for debt issued in the international capital markets. The effect on our long-term debt is much more uncertain due to the factors described above; however, we estimate that there would be a material increase in our borrowing costs for long-term debt. In addition, we expect that we would be required to post additional collateral in respect of our derivative arrangements in the event of such a downgrade. As a result, any such downgrade could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we were required to cancel our derivatives contracts with certain counterparties and were unable to replace such contracts, our market risk profile could be altered. For a further discussion of liquidity matters, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Mismatches of exchange rate and maturity between our loan portfolio and our sources of funds could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our capacity to expand our loan business We are exposed to maturity mismatches between our loans and sources of funding. The majority of our loan portfolio consists of fixed interest rate loans, and the yield from our loans depends on our ability to balance our cost of funding with the interest rates we charge to our borrowers. An increase in market interest rates in Chile or Colombia could increase our cost of funding, especially the cost of time deposits, and could reduce the spread we earn on our loans, materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any mismatch between the maturity of our loan portfolio and our sources of funding would magnify the effect of any imbalance in interest rates, also representing a liquidity risk if we fail to obtain funding on an ongoing basis. In addition, since part of our funding comes from securities denominated in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies that we issue abroad, any devaluation of the Chilean or Colombian peso against the U.S. dollar or such other foreign currencies would increase the cost of funding in relation to these securities. An increase in our total cost of funds for any of these reasons could result in an increase in the interest rates on our loans, which could, as a result, affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to attract new customers and expand our loan business. We are subject to market and operational risks associated with derivative transactions We enter into derivative transactions primarily for hedging purposes and, on a limited basis, on behalf of customers. These transactions are subject to market and operational risks, including basis risk (the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and the funding and/or hedge cost) and credit or default risk (the risk of insolvency or other inability of a counterparty to perform its obligations to us). 17 Table of Contents Market practices and documentation for derivative transactions in Chile and Colombia may differ from those in other countries. For example, documentation may not incorporate terms and conditions of derivatives transactions as commonly understood in other countries. In addition, the execution and performance of these transactions depends on our ability to develop adequate control and administration systems and to hire and retain qualified personnel. Moreover, our ability to monitor and analyze these transactions depends on our information technology systems. These factors may further increase risks associated with derivative transactions and, if they are not adequately controlled, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our level of insurance might not be sufficient to fully cover all liabilities that may arise in the course of our business and insurance coverage might not be available in the future We maintain insurance for losses resulting from fire, explosions, floods and electrical shorts and outages at our various buildings and facilities. We also have civil liability insurance covering material and physical losses and damages that may be suffered by third parties. We cannot assure you that our level of insurance is sufficient to fully cover all liabilities that may arise in the course of our business or that insurance will continue to be available in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance on comparable terms in the future. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we incur liabilities that are not fully covered by our insurance policies. The occurrence of natural disasters in the regions where we operate could impair our ability to conduct business effectively and could adversely affect our results of operations We are exposed to the risk of natural disasters such as the earthquake and tsunami that affected Chile in 2010 as well as floods, mudslides and volcanic eruptions in the regions where we operate. In the event of a natural disaster, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business in the affected region, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, if a significant number of our local employees and managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. A natural disaster, such as the earthquake and tsunami that affected Chile in 2010, could damage some of our branches and ATMs, forcing us to close damaged facilities or locations, increased recovery costs as well as cause economic harm to our clients. A natural disaster or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on local businesses in the affected region and could result in substantial volatility or adverse harm in our business, financial condition and results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year. Current economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to continue funding our business on favorable terms Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been time deposits. Time deposits represented 56.3%, 56.1%, 59% and 61.4% of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Large-denominations in time deposits from institutional investors may, under some circumstances, be a less stable source of funding than savings and bonds, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and any resulting increased competition for such funds. Limitations on liquidity triggered by the world economic crisis starting in 2008 has impacted global markets and affected sources of funding, including time deposits. As of December 31, 2012, our investment portfolio did not contain instruments (i) backed by, or otherwise related to, U.S. subprime mortgages, or (ii) with exposure to monoline financial guarantors. Although our results of operations and financial position have not suffered a significant impact as a consequence of the recent credit market instability in the U.S. and the liquidity available in the Chilean and Colombian markets has permitted us to fund our operations and maintain our regular business activities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue funding our business or, if so, maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain assets. 18 Table of Contents Deceleration of economic growth in Asia, Europe the United States and other developed nations may have an adverse effect on the Chilean economy, on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our securities We are directly exposed to risks related to the weakness and volatility of the economic and political situation in Asia, the United States and other developed nations, including the global economic world crisis that still affects part of the world, especially Europe. If these nations’ economic environments deteriorate, the economies in Chile and Colombia could also be affected and could experience slower growth than in recent years thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the market value of our securities. RISKS RELATING TO CHILE AND OTHER COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE Chile’s banking regulatory and capital markets environment is continually evolving and may change Changes in banking regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Chilean laws, regulations, policies and interpretations of laws relating to the financial system are continually evolving and changing. In 2007, new regulations governing the Chilean capital markets, called Reforma al Mercado de Capitales II (also known as MK2), were approved. These regulations, among other things, modified certain provisions set forth in the Decree with Force of Law No. 3 of 1997, as amended, or the General Banking Law. Under new legislation, the limit on the amount that a bank is allowed to grant as an unsecured loan to a single individual or entity was increased to 10% of its regulatory capital (and up to 30% of its regulatory capital if any loans granted in excess of the 10% is secured by certain collateral). Previously, these limits were set at 5% and 2.05%, respectively. Although any such increase may increase our lending activity, it may also increase the risks associated with the growth of our loan portfolio and increase competition as the number of banks that can compete in the corporate banking sector increases. In June 2010, additional regulations governing the Chilean capital markets, called Reforma al Mercado de Capitales III (also known as MK3), were approved. MK3, among other things, allows non-Chilean banks with representative offices in Chile to directly promote the credit products and services of their parent companies. Previously, these representative offices could only act as intermediaries between their parent companies and local companies. This change may further increase competition by increasing the number of banks that can compete directly in Chile. During 2011 and 2012, several bills were proposed to modify the maximum interest rate a bank may charge, which is currently calculated as the average rate of all transactions made within the banking industry over the previous month, multiplied by a factor of 1.5. While one bill proposes to modify the factor to 1.36, another bill would set the maximum interest rate equivalent to three times the Monetary Policy Rate, as determined by the Central Bank of Chile. In July 2012, the Chilean Finance Minister and the heads of the Senate’s Finance and Economy Commissions negotiated a proposed solution that would gradually decrease the maximum interest rate to approximately 35%, and would provide for different maximum rates depending on the nominal amount of the relevant transaction. If this agreement in its current form succeeds, such law would limit the amount of interest that we are permitted to charge for certain of our products, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In December 2011, the Consumer Protection Act (Ley de Derechos de los Consumidores) was amended to include provisions applicable to financial products and services. Pursuant to this amendment, any agreement for financial products or services between a bank and a customer must expressly provide for certain customer rights and protections, including but not limited to (i) a detailed breakdown of all direct and indirect charges, fees, costs and tariffs that form part of the price of the relevant product or service, including any such charges, fees, costs and tariffs that are part of other products or services simultaneously contracted; (ii) the events of default that may trigger a bank’s right of early termination, a reasonable cure period and the manner by which consumers are to be informed of any such early termination; and (iii) a customer’s right of early termination in its sole and absolute discretion (subject to such customer’s payment in full all of its obligations under the agreement, including any costs arising from such early termination). In addition, the amendment sets forth certain additional customer rights and protections, including, but not limited to, the right to (1) receive information about the total cost of any financial product or service, (2) be informed of the bank’s reasons for rejecting a customer application for a financial product or service; and (3) be informed of any non-discretionary conditions to which a customer’s access to a particular financial product or services are subject. This amendment, also established a new dispute resolution mechanism, which provides for both mediation and arbitration. As of December 31, 2012, we cannot determine with any reasonable degree of certainty the potential impact, if any, that the implementation of this amendment will have on our financial position or results of operation. 19 Table of Contents In February 2012, Law No. 20,575 (Ley DICOM) was enacted in order to restrict the use of private and personal economic, financial, banking and commercial information of customers set forth in Law No. 19,628 on Protection of Privacy, which is supplemented by Ley DICOM. This new law (i) provides that this data can only be shared with established businesses and companies that engage in business and credit risk assessment for use in connection with such risk assessments; (ii) prohibits the request of this data in connection with recruitment for employment, admission to preschool, grade school or higher education, medical attention or nomination for a public position; (iii) requires distributors of personal information, if requested by the owners of such data, for purposes other than credit process review, to certify solely overdue obligations of such person; (iv) prohibits the sharing or reporting of information related to any obligations that have been renegotiated, novated or remain outstanding in certain forms as well as debts owed to toll road operators; (v) requires the distributors of economic, financial, banking and business information to maintain a registry of persons who request such information, including the reason, date and time of the request; (vi) allows the owners of any such requested information to access the registry, free of charge, every four months, to verify such information for the last 12 months; (vii) imposes on the distributor or other responsible party of such information the obligation to demonstrate compliance with Ley DICOM and (viii) obligates the deletion of unpaid obligations reported through December 31, 2011, provided that the total debt registered by such debtor is for an amount less than Ch$2,500,000, for capital, excluding interest, adjustments or any other item. We do not expect Ley DICOM to have a significant impact on our business or our commercial practices because we have anticipated the changes it introduced, to a large extent, by adjusting the information base and the relevant parameters used in our credit risk-assessment models for granting loans. Chile has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those you may be familiar with in the United States As a regulated financial institution, we are required to submit to the SBIF unaudited consolidated and unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any related footnote disclosure, on a monthly basis. As of January 2008, the statements have to be prepared in accordance with Circular No. 3,410 “Compendium of Accounting Standards” or the Compendium, and the rules of the SBIF. The SBIF also makes summary financial information available within four weeks of receipt. Although Chilean banks are required to apply IFRS as issued by the IASB as of January 1, 2009, certain exceptions introduced by the SBIF prevent banks from achieving full convergence. In those situations which are not addressed by the guidance issued by the SBIF, institutions must follow the generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Association of Chilean Accountants, which coincide with IFRS as issued by the IASB. However, our consolidated annual financial statements as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2012 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS in order to comply with SEC requirements. The securities laws of Chile, which govern open, or publicly listed, companies such as ours, have as a principal objective promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public. Chilean disclosure requirements, however, differ from those in the United States in some important respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, applicable Chilean laws are different from those in the United States and in certain respects the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the United States securities markets. Chile imposes controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that may affect your investment in, and earnings from, our ADSs Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have generally been subject to various exchange control regulations which restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated the regulations that affected foreign investors except that investors are still required to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. See “Item 10. Additional Information—D. Exchange Controls” for a discussion of the types of information required to be provided. 20 Table of Contents Owners of ADSs are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by holders of ADSs will be converted into U.S. dollars and distributed net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35% (subject to credits in certain cases). If for any reason, including changes in Chilean laws or regulations, the depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors may receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends could be imposed in the future and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. The legal restrictions on the exposure of Chilean pension funds may adversely affect our access to funding Chilean regulations impose restrictions on the share of assets that a Chilean pension fund management company (Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones, or AFP) may allocate: (a) per fund (considering all sub-funds within an AFP (A, B, C, D or E)), to deposits in checking accounts and term deposit accounts and in debt securities issued by a single banking institution (or guaranteed by such bank), investments not exceeding the value of a multiple set forth by the Central Bank of Chile considering such bank’s equity (patrimonio), which shall fluctuate between 0.5 and 1.5 in accordance with article 47 of the D.L. 3,500; (b) per type of sub-fund, to shares of a single banking institution (or guaranteed by such bank), investments not exceeding 11% of the value of the relevant sub-fund; and (c) per fund (considering all sub-funds), to a single banking institution, investments not exceeding 2.5% of the value of such banking institution subscribed shares with a maximum limit equal to 5% of the value of such AFP multiplied by the concentration factor applicable to the banking institution as set forth in number III.7.1 of the Investment Regime of the Chilean Pension Funds issued by the Superintendency of Pensions, at a current level of 0.2 for CorpBanca’s shareholder current structure. Additionally, each fund managed by an AFP is permitted to make deposits with a bank for an amount not to exceed the equivalent of such bank’s equity. If the exposure of a pension fund managed by an AFP to a single bank exceeds such limit for investments in securities, the AFP for such pension fund is required to reduce the fund’s exposure below the limit within three years. As of December 31, 2012, the aggregate exposure of AFPs to us was Ch$1,847,921 million or 2.38% of their total assets. If the exposure of any AFP to us exceeds the regulatory limit, we would need to seek alternative sources of funding, which could be more expensive and, as a consequence, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pension funds must also comply with other investment limits. In 2007, MK2 was approved, relaxing the limits on making investments abroad in order to permit pension funds to further diversify their investment portfolios. As of December 31, 2012, the maximum limit on making investments abroad was 80%. As a result, pension funds may change the composition of their portfolios, including reducing their deposits with local banks. As of December 31, 2012, 9.9% of our time deposits were from AFPs. In the case of banks, each fund managed by an AFP is permitted to make deposits with such bank for an amount not to exceed the equivalent of such bank’s equity. Although the legislation referred to above is intended to promote a gradual relaxation of the investment limits, and we may be able to substitute the reduced institutional funds with retail deposits, there can be no assurance that this occurrence will not have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On November 6, 2012 the Superintendency of Pensions changed some of the investment limits applicable to AFPs, which became effective on January 1, 2013. The new investment limit regarding maximum investments from a fund on a national bank’s instruments was lowered from 11% to 9% of the fund’s total value. The new investment limit should not impact CorpBanca’s current positions with AFPs, however, since the aggregate pension fund position in CorpBanca is below 6%. The other investment limits that are to be lowered are funds maximum investments in shares of corporations and banks, bonds from public or private corporations and Chilean or foreign investment funds. 21 Table of Contents Increased regulation of the financial services industry in Chile or Colombia could increase our costs and result in lower profits As a result of the recent financial crisis, there has been an increase in government regulation of the financial services industry in many countries. Such regulation may also be increased in Chile and Colombia, including the imposition of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure standards and restrictions on certain types of transaction structures. In addition, novel regulatory proposals are abound in the current environment. If enacted, new regulations could require us to inject further capital into our business as well as in businesses we acquire, restrict the type or volume of transactions we enter into, or set limits on or require the modification of rates or fees that we charge on certain loans or other products, any of which could lower the return on our investments, assets and equity. Although we currently comply with the minimum regulatory capital ratio required under the Chilean and Colombian banking regulations, no assurance can be given that in the future we will need to inject additional capital to our business if such regulation is amended. We may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Our results of operations are affected by interest rate volatility Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, our ratio of net interest income to total operating income was 68.7%, 57.8% and 57.5%, respectively. Changes in market interest rates in Chile or Colombia could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities leading to a reduction in our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank of Chile and Colombia, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile and Colombia, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Yields on the Chilean government’s 90-day benchmark rate reached a high of 3.4% and a low of 0.5% in 2010, a high of 5.6% and a low of 3.6% in 2011 and a high of 5.2% and a low of 4.8% in 2012. On the other hand, the Colombian government does not emit short term bonds of 30, 60 or 90 days as the Chilean government does. Instead, every month the committee from the Central Bank of Colombia decides the benchmark rate in order to achieve a specific goal of inflation. Yields on the Colombian benchmark rate reached a high of 3.5% and a low of 3% for 2010, a high of 4.75% and a low of 3% for 2011 and a high of 5.25% and a low of 4.25% for 2012. As of December 31, 2010, 2011, 2012, we had Ch$746,248.0 million, Ch$843,250.0 million and Ch$1,112,435 million, respectively, in financial investments available-for-sale. In the current global economic climate, there is a greater degree of uncertainty and unpredictability in the policy decisions and the setting of interest rates by the Central Bank of Chile and Central Bank of Colombia and, as a result, any volatility in interest rates could adversely affect us, including our future financial performance and the market value of our securities. We are subject to increases in income tax rates Like all Chilean companies, we are subject to income tax at a rate of 18.5% of our taxable income. Since the earthquake and tsunami that affected Chile in 2010 and the educational reform proposal, the Chilean government has found it necessary to raise funds in order to finance the reconstruction efforts of the affected areas and education reform, respectively. As a result, the corporate income tax rate was recently increased to 20% by the tax reform approved by the Congress (Law No. 20,630), which is effective retroactively from January 1, 2012. Any future increases in income tax rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are also subject to income tax in Colombia at a rate of 33% with respect to our activities in Colombia. Beginning in fiscal year 2013, the Colombian corporate income tax rate is reduced from 33% to 25%, and a new income tax called the “CREE” with a tax rate of 9% (8% beginning in fiscal year 2016) will be imposed. The CREE reduced the payroll taxes in Colombia from 9% to 4% and the social security contributions. The CREE will also eliminate the 8.5% employer’s health contribution for those employees earning less than 10 minimum wages (approximately US$3,205 for 2012). Payroll taxes and social security reductions must be applicable before July 1, 2013. The taxable base of the CREE would be similar to the taxable base of the Colombian income tax. However it does not allow the subtraction of tax credits and allows only certain of the tax exemptions permitted for the Colombian income tax. As a result, the CREE could potentially raise our effective rate of tax with respect to our activities in Colombia. 22 Table of Contents Any future increases in income tax rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any additional taxes resulting from changes to tax regulations or the interpretation thereof in Colombia could adversely affect our consolidated results Uncertainty relating to tax legislation poses a constant risk to CorpBanca Colombia. Changes in legislation, regulation and jurisprudence can affect tax burdens by increasing tax rates and fees, creating new taxes, limiting stated expenses and deductions, and eliminating incentives and non-taxed income. Notably, the Colombian government has a significant fiscal deficit that may result in future tax increases. Additional tax regulations could be implemented that could require CorpBanca Colombia to make additional tax payments, negatively affecting its results of operations and cash flow. In addition, national or local taxing authorities may not interpret tax regulations in the same way that CorpBanca Colombia does. Differing interpretations could result in future tax litigation and associated costs. Any downgrading of Chile’s or Colombia’s debt credit rating for domestic and international debt by international credit rating agencies may also affect our ratings, our business, our future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities Any adverse revisions to Chile’s or Colombia’s credit ratings for domestic and international debt by international rating agencies may adversely affect our ratings, and, as a result, our cost of funding, including interest rates paid on our deposits and securities. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, future financial performance, stockholders’ equity and the value of our securities. Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile, Colombia and other emerging markets Substantially all of our loans are to borrowers doing business in Chile or Colombia. Accordingly, the recoverability of these loans in particular, our ability to increase the amount of loans outstanding and our results of operations and financial condition in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile and Colombia. The Chilean and Colombian economies have been influenced, to varying degrees, by economic conditions in other emerging market countries. Changes in Chilean or Colombian economic growth in the future or future developments in or affecting the Chilean or Colombian economies, respectively, including consequences of economic difficulties in emerging and developed markets, including some of our neighbor countries, or a deceleration in the economic growth of Asian or other developed nations to which Chile and Colombian export a majority of their respective goods, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. According to data published by the Central Bank of Chile, the Chilean economy grew by 5.2% in 2010, 6% in 2011 and 5.6% in 2012. According to data published by the Central Bank of Colombia, the Colombian economy grew by 4% in 2010, 6.6% in 2011 and 4% in 2012. Historically, lower economic growth has adversely affected the overall asset quality of the Colombian banking system and CorpBanca Colombia’s loan portfolio. Our results of operations and financial condition could also be affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean or Colombian governments, which have each exercised and continue to exercise a substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector, or other political or economic developments in Chile. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country may affect the securities of issuers in other countries, including Chile. Starting in September 2008, the economic and financial crisis in the United States and Europe sparked a series of financial institution failures across the globe. This resulted in a liquidity crisis and a reduction in growth of the global economy as financial institutions tightened risk policies and reduced lending to banks, corporations and individuals. During 2009, the economies of the United States and some European countries contracted, which, in turn, impacted the Chilean and Colombian 23 Table of Contents economies. Although there have recently been signs of recovery in the global economy, Chile and Colombia, this recovery may be fragile and also may reflect temporary benefits from government stimulus programs that may not be sustained. The ability of certain countries, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy and companies in those countries and in the Euro zone to repay debt obligations remains uncertain. The effect on consumer confidence of any actual or perceived deterioration in the Chilean or Colombian economies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations could also be affected by regulatory changes in administrative practices, changes in economic or other policies of the Chilean or Colombian governments or other political or economic developments in or affecting Chile or Colombia, over which we have no control. Inflation and government measures to curb inflation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Although Chilean and Colombian inflation have been low in recent years, Chile and Colombia have experienced high inflation in the double-digit levels in the past. Such high levels of inflation in Chile or Colombia could adversely affect the Chilean and Colombian economies and have an adverse effect on our results of operations if such inflation is not accompanied by a matching devaluation of the local currency. We cannot make any assurances that Chilean or Colombian inflation will not revert to prior levels in the future. The following table shows the annual rate of inflation during the last five years as measured by changes in the Chilean and Colombian consumer price index, or CPI, and as reported by the: (i) Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas, or the Chilean National Institute of Statistics: and (ii) the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística (DANE) or the National Administrative Department of Statistics: Year Chilean Inflation (CPI) Colombian Inflation (CPI) (in percentages) 2008 7.1 7.7 2009 (1.4) 2.0 2010 3.0 3.2 2011 4.4 3.7 2012 1.5 2.4 Source: Chilean National Institute of Statistics / Colombian National Administrative Department of Statistics. In 2009, economic activity slowed significantly in Chile, resulting in 1.4% deflation, and increased in Colombia, resulting in 2% inflation. In 2010, economic growth increased in Chile, ending the year with 3% inflation, in part supported by additional government and private sector spending to finance the reconstruction work required to restore Chile’s productive capacity and financial aid to the areas affected by the 2010 earthquake and tsunami, and grew in Colombia, resulting in 3.2% inflation. During 2010, GDP grew by 5.2% in Chile and grew by 4% in Colombia. During 2011, GDP grew by 6% and the inflation rate increased by 4.4% in Chile and GDP grew by 6.6% and the inflation rate increased by 3.7% in Colombia. During 2012, GDP grew by 5.6% and the inflation rate increased by 1.5% in Chile and GDP grew by 4% and the inflation rate increased by 2.44% in Colombia. The Central Bank of Chile decreased the interbank rate from 5.25% in 2011 to 5% in 2012 in response to a decrease in inflation expectations. In Chile, the average interbank rate was 5% in 2012. The Central Bank of Colombia decreased the interbank rate from 11% in 2011 to 7.25% in 2012 in response to a decrease in inflation expectations driven by decreased economic activity. In Colombia, the average interbank rate was 8.5% in 2012. High levels of inflation or deflation in Chile or Colombia could adversely affect the Chilean or Colombian economies and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in addressing the challenges and risks presented by our operations in countries outside Chile/Colombia We now operate a banking business in Colombia. CorpBanca Colombia’s operations may involve risks to which we have not previously been exposed. CorpBanca Colombia’s businesses are focused on retail banking as well as wholesale and commercial banking. The products and services offered by CorpBanca Colombia include savings, current accounts, fixed-term deposits, credit and debit cards, consumer and commercial loans, mortgages, cash management, foreign trade, financial assessment and as well as providing other banking services to business and individuals. 24 Table of Contents We have limited experience conducting credit card and consumer finance businesses in countries outside Chile. Accordingly, we may not be successful in managing credit card and consumer finance operations outside of our traditional domestic market in Chile. We may face delays in payments by customers and higher delinquency rates in Colombia, which could necessitate higher provisions for loan losses and, consequently, have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Colombia has experienced internal security issues that have had or could have in the future a negative effect on the Colombian economy Colombia has experienced internal security issues, primarily due to the activities of guerrilla groups such as the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, or FARC, paramilitary groups and drug cartels. In remote regions of the country with minimal governmental presence, these groups have exerted influence over the local population and funded their activities by protecting, and rendering services to drug traffickers. Even though the Colombian government’s “democratic security” program has reduced guerrilla and criminal activity, particularly in the form of terrorism attacks, homicides, kidnappings and extortion, such activity persists in Colombia, and possible escalation of such activity and the effects associated with them have had and may have in the future a negative impact on the Colombian economy and on our operations in Colombia, including CorpBanca Colombia’s customers, employees, results of operations and financial condition. Tensions with Venezuela and Ecuador may affect the Colombian economy and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition Diplomatic relations with Venezuela and Ecuador, two of Colombia’s main trading partners, have from time to time been tense and affected by events surrounding the Colombian armed forces combat of the FARC throughout Colombia, particularly on Colombia’s borders with Venezuela and Ecuador. Any further deterioration in relations with Venezuela and Ecuador may result in the closing of borders, the imposition of trade barriers or a breakdown of diplomatic ties, any of which could have a negative impact on Colombia’s trade balance, economy and general security situation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Venezuelan political events may affect CorpBanca Colombia’s operations. Venezuela held elections on April 14, 2013 following the death of President Hugo Chavez. Although Nicolas Maduro has been sworn in as President of Venezuela, the opposition parties have contested the result on the basis of alleged voting irregularities. As a result, Venezuelan political conditions remain uncertain. We cannot provide any assurances that political developments in Venezuela, over which CorpBanca Colombia has no control, will not have an adverse effect on CorpBanca Colombia’s business, financial condition or results. Government policies and actions, and judicial decisions, in Colombia could significantly affect the local economy and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition of our business in Colombia The results of operations and financial condition of our business in Colombia may be adversely affected by changes in Colombian governmental policies and actions, and judicial decisions, involving a broad range of matters, including interest rates, exchange rates, exchange controls, inflation rates, taxation, banking and pension fund regulations and other political or economic developments affecting Colombia. The Colombian government has historically exercised substantial influence over the economy, and its policies are likely to continue to have a significant effect on Colombian companies. The president of Colombia has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions relating to the economy, and may adopt policies that could negatively affect our business in Colombia. Future governmental policies and actions, or judicial decisions, could adversely impact the results of operations or financial condition of our business in Colombia. 25 Table of Contents An increase in constitutional collective actions (acciones populares), class actions (acciones de grupo) and other similar legal actions involving claims for significant monetary awards against financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our and CorpBanca Colombia’s business and results of operations Under the Colombian Constitution, individuals may initiate constitutional collective or class actions to protect their collective or class rights, respectively. Colombian financial institutions, including CorpBanca Colombia, have experienced a substantial increase in the aggregate number of these actions. The great majority of such actions have been related to fees, financial services and interest rates, and their outcome is uncertain. Pursuant to law 1425 of 2010, monetary awards for plaintiffs in constitutional collective actions (acciones populares) were eliminated as of January 1, 2011. Nevertheless, individuals continue to have the right to initiate constitutional or class actions against CorpBanca Colombia. Future restrictions on interest rates or banking fees could materially and adversely affect our and CorpBanca Colombia’s profitability and financial results The Colombian Commerce Code limits the amount of interest that may be charged in commercial transactions. In the future, regulations could impose limitations regarding interest rates or fees charged by CorpBanca Colombia. Any such limitations could materially and adversely affect CorpBanca Colombia and our results of operations and financial position. In the past, there have been disputes in Colombia among merchants, payment services and banks regarding interchange fees. Although such disputes have been resolved, the Colombian Superintendency of Industry and Commerce (Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio), or the SIC, may initiate new investigations relating to the interchange fees. This possibility may lead to additional decreases in such fees, which in turn could adversely affect CorpBanca Colombia’s and our financial results. Furthermore, pursuant to article 62 of law 1430 of 2010, the Colombian Congress granted the government power and authority to establish and define criteria and formulas applicable to the calculation of banking fees and charges and the authority to define maximum limits to banking fees and charges. On December 20, 2011, the Colombian Government used the authority granted by law 1430 of 2010 and established in Decree 4809 of 2011 a cap on the fees banks can charge on withdrawals done from ATMs outside their own networks. Under Colombian regulation, banks are prohibited from charging prepayment penalties or fees on loans except when the outstanding amount of a loan is more than the equivalent of 880 legal minimum monthly wages (approximately US$275,000). If the outstanding amount of a loan is more than the equivalent of 880 legal minimum monthly wages, prepayment penalties or fees may be charged but only when expressly contemplated under the governing loan agreement. Further limits or regulations regarding banking fees, and uncertainties with respect thereto could have a negative effect on CorpBanca Colombia and our results of operations and financial condition. A new insolvency law in Colombia may limit our monetary collection and ability to enforce our rights On June 12, 2012, the Congress of Colombia enacted Law 1564 of 2012, which provides insolvency protection for non-merchant individuals. Under the new insolvency regulation, which came into effect on October 1, 2012, once a non-merchant individual has ceased paying its debts, such individual can initiate a voluntary insolvency proceeding before a notary public or mediator to reach an agreement with its creditors. The terms of any agreement reached with a group (two or more) of creditors that represent more than 50% of the total amount of the claims will be mandatorily applicable to all relevant creditors. As a result of these agreements CorpBanca Colombia may not be able to recover the total amount of its claims. The increased debtor protections contemplated in the law, including an automatic stay for a maximum of 90 days, could also make it more difficult for CorpBanca Colombia to enforce debt and other monetary obligations, which could have an adverse impact on CorpBanca Colombia and our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents The Central Bank of Colombia may impose requirements on CorpBanca Colombia’s (and other Colombian residents’) ability to obtain loans in foreign currency The Central Bank of Colombia may impose certain mandatory deposit requirements in connection with foreign currency-denominated loans obtained by Colombian residents, including CorpBanca Colombia. Although no mandatory deposit requirement is currently in effect, a mandatory deposit requirement was set at 40% in 2008 after the Colombian peso appreciated against foreign currencies. We cannot predict or control future actions by the Central Bank of Colombia in respect of such deposit requirements, which may involve the establishment of a different mandatory deposit percentage. The use of such measures by the Central Bank of Colombia may be a disincentive for CorpBanca Colombia and its clients to obtain loans denominated in a foreign currency. CorpBanca Colombia may be unable to collect on collateral or guarantees securing loans, which may adversely affect its and our results of operations and financial condition CorpBanca Colombia makes loans that are secured by collateral, including real estate and other assets that are generally located in Colombia. The value of collateral may significantly fluctuate or decline due to factors beyond its control, including, for example, economic and political conditions in the country. An economic slowdown may lead to a downturn in the Colombian real estate market, which may, in turn, result in declines in the value of real estate securing loans to levels below the principal balances of these loans. Any decline in the value of the collateral securing loans may result in reduced recoveries from collateral realization and have an adverse effect on CorpBanca Colombia’s and our results of operations and financial condition. CorpBanca Colombia also makes loans on the basis of guarantees from relatives, affiliates or associated persons of borrowers. To the extent that guarantors encounter financial difficulties due to economic conditions, personal or business circumstances, or otherwise, the ability of CorpBanca Colombia’s banks to enforce such guarantees may be impaired. In addition, CorpBanca Colombia may face difficulties in enforcing its rights as a secured creditor against borrowers, collateral or guarantees. In particular, timing delays and procedural problems in realizing against collateral, as well as a debtor-protective judicial interpretations of the law, may make it difficult to foreclose on collateral, realize against guarantees or enforce judgments in CorpBanca Colombia’s favor, which could materially and adversely affect CorpBanca Colombia’s and our results of operations and financial condition. CorpBanca Colombia may face legal and other challenges to maximizing revenue from credit card fees and other fees from customers CorpBanca Colombia’s credit card business faces risks relating to the pricing of fees and commissions charged to merchants (merchant discounts) and the pricing of bank interchange fees charged by issuer banks to acquiring banks. Banks and card processors in Colombia have been subject to administrative investigations regarding the fees and commissions that are charged to the merchants by the acquiring banks and in respect to the banking interchange fees. In the past, the SIC has conducted investigations on the practices of Asociación Gremial de Instituciones Financieras Credibanco (Visa franchisee in Colombia) and Redeban Multicolor S.A. (MasterCard franchisee in Colombia), the entities chosen by most Colombian banks to manage the credit card system in Colombia, relating to alleged price fixing agreements among Colombian banks relating to fees and commissions charged to merchants. As a result of these investigations, the fees charged to merchants and bank interchange fees could decrease, which could also lead to changes in commercial strategies that could affect CorpBanca Colombia’s and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, fees charged for other banking services have and may continue to be reduced in the future as a result of regulatory measures and/or pressure from retailers and interest groups. CorpBanca Colombia faces uncertainty regarding new consumer protection laws Law 1328 of 2009, also referred to as the “financial reform law,” creates a new customer protection regime with respect to financial institutions. The financial reform law provides a bill of rights for consumers of financial services and products, including the right to receive clear, complete and reliable information about the services and products offered by financial institutions. The law and the decrees and regulations issued pursuant to it also contain 27 Table of Contents specific new obligations for financial institutions, including a duty to maintain a financial ombudsman in charge of consumer protection and procedures regulating the responsibilities and function of the ombudsman, a duty to create a financial consumer attention center pursuant to terms set by the Colombian Superintendency of Finance, an obligation to provide services and products under the same conditions offered to the general public, and a prohibition on the inclusion of predatory or abusive clauses in contracts with consumers. Any violation of this law or the decrees and regulations issued pursuant to this law by CorpBanca Colombia could result in monetary or administrative sanctions or restrictions on its operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS We may not be able to manage our growth successfully We have been expanding the scope of our operations over the past few years, and we expect that this expansion will continue. As we continue to grow, we must improve our operational, technical and managerial knowledge and compliance systems in order to effectively manage our operations across the expanded group. Failure to integrate, monitor and manage expanded operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial results. Our future growth will also depend on our access to internal and external financing sources. We may be unable to access such financing on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Integration of acquired or merged businesses involves certain risks that may have a material adverse effect on us We have engaged in a number of mergers and acquisitions in the past, including the acquisition of CorpBanca Colombia in 2012 and the pending acquisition of Helm Bank, and may make further acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy. We believe that these transactions will contribute to our continued growth and competitiveness in the Chilean, Colombian, and international banking sectors. Any acquisition and merger of institutions and assets and the integration of such institutions and assets involves certain risks including the risk that: • integrating new networks, information systems, personnel, financial and accounting systems, risk and other management systems, financial planning and reporting, products and customer bases into our existing business may run into difficulties, cause us to incur unexpected costs and operating expenses and place additional demands on management time; • we may incur unexpected liabilities or contingencies relating to acquired businesses; • antitrust and other regulatory authorities may impose restrictions or limitations on the terms of the acquisition or merger, require disposition of certain assets or businesses or withhold their approval of such transaction; and • the expected operation and financial synergies and other benefits from such mergers or acquisitions may not be fully achieved. If we fail to achieve the business growth opportunities, cost savings and other benefits we anticipate from mergers and acquisition transactions, or incur greater integration costs than we have estimated, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Acquisitions and strategic partnerships may not perform in accordance with expectations, may fail to receive required regulatory approvals or may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business financial condition and results of operations A component of our strategy is to identify and pursue growth-enhancing strategic opportunities. As part of that strategy, we have consummated the Banco Santander Colombia Acquisition and are in the process of consummating the Helm Bank Acquisition, which we expect to complete during the second quarter of 2013. We will continue to consider additional strategic acquisitions and alliances from time to time, inside and outside of Chile and Colombia. Strategic acquisitions and alliances, including the Helm Bank Acquisition, could expose us to risks with which we have limited or no experience. In addition, the Helm Bank Acquisition is subject to regulatory approval in 28 Table of Contents Chile, Colombia, Panama and the Cayman Islands, and we may not be successful in obtaining such approval. Future acquisitions may also be subject to regulatory approval, which we may not receive, particularly in view of our increasing market share in the Colombian banking industry. We must necessarily base any assessment of potential acquisitions and alliances on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may subsequently prove to be incorrect. Future acquisitions and alliances, including the Helm Bank Acquisition and other investments, may not produce anticipated synergies or perform in accordance with our expectations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, new demands on our existing organization, management and employees resulting from the integration of new acquisitions could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pending acquisition of Helm Bank is subject to the approval of regulatory authorities in Colombia, Chile, Panama and the Cayman Islands The pending Helm Bank Acquisition is subject to the approval of regulatory and banking authorities in Colombia, Chile, Panama and the Cayman Islands, any of which may reject or impose significant and burdensome conditions to the approval of the acquisition, including mandatory disposal of certain business lines currently operated by Helm Bank. We can provide you with no assurance that all of these approvals will be received, or that the cost of complying with any conditions to the approval of the acquisition will not be significant. We have limited knowledge of the liabilities of Helm Bank and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates As part of the Helm Bank Acquisition, we have carried out a legal and accounting due diligence on Helm Bank and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates. However, this due diligence may not produce all of the economic and financial information that may be material to our decision to acquire Helm Bank and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates. We may incur significant losses in connection with liabilities of Helm Bank and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES U.S. securities laws do not require us to disclose as much information to investors as a U.S. issuer is required to disclose, and you may receive less information about us than you might otherwise receive from a comparable U.S. company The corporate disclosure requirements applicable to us may not be equivalent to the requirements applicable to a U.S. company and, as a result, you may receive less information about us than you might otherwise receive in connection with a comparable U.S. company. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, that apply to “foreign private issuers.” The periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. We are required only to file an annual report on Form 20-F, but we are not required to file any quarterly reports. A U.S. registrant must file an annual report on Form 10-K and three quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We are required to furnish current reports on Form 6-K, but the information that we must disclose in those reports is governed primarily by Chilean law disclosure requirements and may differ from Form 8-K’s current reporting requirements imposed on a U.S. issuer. 29 Table of Contents We are not subject to the proxy requirements of Section 14 of the Exchange Act and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are not subject to the short swing insider trading reporting and recovery requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Our status as a controlled company and a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, limiting the protections afforded to investors We are a “controlled company” and a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a controlled company is exempt from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. In addition, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of our board of directors (directorio), or Board of Directors, consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (4) an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken, and (5) the members of the audit committee meet the Exchange Act Rule 10A-3(b)(1) independence requirements. We currently use these exemptions and intend to continue using these exemptions. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to investors in companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. See “Item 16G. Corporate Governance” for a comparison of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange and Chilean practice. Certain actions by our principal shareholder may have an adverse effect on the future market value of our securities and may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders Our controlling shareholder is Corp Group Banking S.A., which in turn is controlled by Mr. Alvaro Saieh Bendeck. As of December 31, 2012, together with members of his family, Mr. Saieh Bendeck and his family maintain an indirect ownership of 60.9% of Corp Group Banking S.A. and 45.9% of CorpBanca’s outstanding common shares through such holding company and also through other investment companies such as Compañía Inmobiliaria y de Inversiones Saga S.A., a company owned by Mr. Saieh Bendeck and his family. In addition, Mr. Saieh Bendeck holds shares with sufficient voting power under Chilean law to approve substantially all of the forms of corporate action subject to decision by shareholders’ meetings, including the distribution of dividends (including, in connection with any issuances of debt by Corp Group Banking S.A.), to elect a majority of the nine members of our Board of Directors, direct our management and control substantially all matters that are to be decided by a vote of shareholders, including fundamental corporate transactions. The sale or disposition by Mr. Saieh Bendeck of our ADSs or common shares that he indirectly owns, or the perception in the marketplace that such a sale or disposition may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our shares on the Santiago Stock Exchange and, consequently, the market value of the ADSs. Investors may find it difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons We are organized under the laws of Chile, and our principal place of business (domicilio social) is in Santiago, Chile. Most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside of the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. Based on the opinion of our Chilean counsel, there is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Chile, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of United States courts, of liabilities based solely on the United States federal securities laws. See “Enforcement of Civil Liabilities”. 30 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs AND COMMON SHARES There may be a lack of liquidity and market for our ADSs and common shares A lack of liquidity in the markets may develop for our ADSs, which would negatively affect the ability of the holders to sell our ADSs or the price at which holders of our ADSs will be able to sell them. Future trading prices of our ADSs will depend on many factors including, among other things, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and the market for similar securities. Our common shares underlying the ADSs are listed and traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic Exchange, although the trading market for the common shares is small by international standards. As of December 31, 2012, we had 293,358,194,234 common shares. Although ADS holders are entitled to withdraw common shares underlying ADSs from the depositary at any time, the Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. As of December 31, 2012, our non-controlling shareholders held approximately 39% of our outstanding common shares. A limited trading market in general and our concentrated ownership in particular may impair the ability of an ADS holder to sell in the Chilean market any common shares obtained upon withdrawal of such common shares from our ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase volatility of the price of the common shares in the form of ADSs. In addition, according to article 14 of the Ley de Mercado de Valores, Ley No. 18045, or the Chilean Securities Market Law, the Chilean Superintendency of Securities and Insurance, or SVS, may suspend the offer, quotation or trading of shares of any company listed on the Chilean stock exchanges for up to 30 days if, in its opinion, such suspension is necessary to protect investors or is justified for reasons of public interest. Such suspension may be extended for up to 120 days. If, at the expiration of the extension, the circumstances giving rise to the original suspension have not changed, the SVS will then cancel the relevant listing in the registry of securities. Furthermore, the Santiago Stock Exchange may inquire as to any movement in the price of any securities in excess of 10% and suspend trading in such securities for a day if it is deemed necessary. These and other factors may substantially limit your ability to sell the common shares underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. The issuance or sale, of a substantial number of our ADSs and common shares, or the perception of a potential issuance or sale, may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and common shares The market price for our common shares may vary significantly in the event a significant number of our common shares is issued or sold by us, our directors and officers or any other relevant shareholders or in the event there is a perception in the market that we, our directors and officers or a relevant shareholder intends to issue or sell, as the case may be, a significant number of common shares. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas, Ley No. 18046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to collectively as the Chilean Corporations Law, and applicable regulations require that whenever we issue new common shares for cash, we are obligated by law to grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including the depositary on behalf of the holders of ADSs), giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. However, we may not be able to offer shares to United States holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future issuance of common shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Act, is effective with respect to such rights and common shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act is available. Our existing shareholders who do not participate in any future preemptive rights offering will suffer an immediate dilution of their percentage equity participation in us. In addition, investors who purchase ADSs or common shares may be subject to dilution of their equity participation in us upon the completion of any future preemptive rights offering. Investors will not know the extent to which they will be diluted until the expiration of any future preemptive rights offering in Chile. 31 Table of Contents We may also need to seek additional funding in the financial and capital markets in the future. We may resort to public or private offerings of common shares, including common shares in the form of ADSs, or securities convertible or exchangeable into, or that in any other manner allow for the subscription of, common shares, including common shares in the form of ADSs. Any public or private offering of common shares, including common shares in the form of ADSs, or securities convertible or exchangeable into ADSs or common shares, may dilute our existing shareholders’ interests in us or may have an adverse impact on the value of our ADSs and common shares. You may have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than with shares of a company in the United States Our corporate affairs are governed by our Estatutos Sociales, or by-laws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, under legislation applicable to Chilean banks, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. Holders of ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings, and they may only vote through the depositary Under Chilean law, a shareholder is required to be registered in our shareholders’ registry at least five business days before a shareholders’ meeting in order to vote at such meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement and accordingly is not entitled to vote at shareholders’ meetings because the shares underlying the ADSs will be registered in the name of the depositary. While a holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs in accordance with the procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In certain instances, a discretionary proxy may vote our shares underlying the ADSs if a holder of ADSs does not instruct the depositary with respect to voting. In addition, a holder of ADSs may not be given a right to vote the shares represented by ADSs at all since, under Chilean law, substantially all of the forms of corporate action can be approved by our controlling shareholder, Corp Group Banking and other investment companies such as Compañía Inmobiliaria y de Inversiones Saga S.A., which are owned by Mr. Saieh Bendeck and his family. U.S. holders of our ADSs or common shares could suffer adverse tax consequences if the Company is characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If you are a U.S. holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. federal income tax considerations”) and we are a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year during which you own our ADSs or common shares, you could be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences. As of the date of this Annual Report, we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year or for any taxable year in the foreseeable future. However, the determination of whether we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition and nature of our income and the composition, nature and value of our assets from time to time, and no assurance can be provided regarding our PFIC status. You should consult your tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, state and local and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of the ADSs or common shares in your particular circumstances. Exchange controls and withholding taxes in Chile may limit repatriation of your investment. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents are generally subject to various exchange control regulations that govern the repatriation of investments and earnings. The ADSs are governed by an agreement among us, the depositary and the Central Bank of Chile, or the Foreign Investment Agreement. The Foreign Investment Agreement grants the depositary and the holders of the ADRs access to Chile’s Formal 32 Table of Contents Exchange Market, permits the depositary to remit dividends it receives from us to the holders of ADSs and permits the holders of ADSs to repatriate the proceeds of the sale of shares withdrawn from the ADR facility, thereby enabling them to acquire on more favorable terms currencies necessary to repatriate investments in the shares and earnings therefrom. Pursuant to current Chilean law, the Foreign Investment Agreement may not be amended unilaterally by the Central Bank of Chile, and there are judicial precedents (which are not binding with respect to future judicial decisions) indicating that the Foreign Investment Agreement may not be voided by future legislative changes. Dividends received by holders of ADSs are paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and fees and expenses of the depositary and are subject to Chilean withholding tax, currently imposed at a rate of 35%, subject to credits in certain cases as described under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Chilean Tax Considerations”. In order to facilitate capital movements from and into Chile and to encourage foreign investment, the Central Bank of Chile eliminated foreign exchange restrictions and adopted the Compendium of Foreign Exchange Regulations (Compendio de Normas de Cambios Internacionales) effective April 19, 2001. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to the holders of ADRs, the disposition of the shares underlying the ADRs or the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends will not be imposed in the future, nor can we advise as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. If for any reason, including changes in the Foreign Investment Agreement or Chilean law, the depositary was able to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends or other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. RISKS RELATING TO OUR NOTES Changes in the tax laws of Chile or any other jurisdiction from or through which we make payments under our 3.125% Senior Notes due January 15, 2018, or our Notes, could lead to the redemption of our Notes by us Payments of interest in respect of our Notes made by us to foreign holders will be subject to Chilean interest withholding tax at a rate of 4%. Subject to certain exceptions, we will pay additional amounts so that the amount received by the holder after Chilean withholding tax and withholding taxes of any other jurisdiction from or through which we make payments under our Notes will equal the amount that would have been received if no such taxes had been applicable. Under the Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2013, by and among Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee paying agent, transfer agent and registrar and Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S.A. as Luxembourg paying agent and transfer agent and us, or the Indenture, our Notes are redeemable at our option, subject to applicable Chilean law, in whole (but not in part), at par, at any time at the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption, and any additional amounts due thereon if, as a result of changes in the laws or regulations affecting taxation, we become obligated to pay additional amounts on our Notes (in excess of additional amounts payable in respect of the 4% withholding tax payable on payments of interest on our Notes). Although no proposal to increase the withholding tax rate in Chile is currently pending, we cannot assure investors in our Notes that an increase in withholding tax rate will not be presented to or enacted by the Chilean Congress. The ratings of our Notes may be lowered or withdrawn depending on various factors, including the rating agency’s assessments of our financial strength and Chilean sovereign risk Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s assigned BBB+ and Baa1, respectively, as credit ratings to our Notes. The ratings address the timely payment of principal and interest on each payment date. The ratings of our Notes are not a recommendation to purchase, hold or sell our Notes, and the ratings do not comment on market price or suitability for a particular investor. The ratings of our Notes are subject to change and may be lowered or withdrawn. A downgrade in or withdrawal of the ratings of our Notes will not be an event of default under the Indenture. The assigned ratings may be raised or lowered depending, among other things, on the rating agency’s assessment of our financial strength, as well as its assessment of Chilean sovereign risk generally. 33 Table of Contents We cannot assure investors in our Notes that the credit ratings for our Notes will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn by the rating agencies The credit ratings of our Notes may change at any time. Such ratings are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our Notes, but rather reflect only the views of the rating agencies at the time the ratings are issued. An explanation of the significance of such ratings may be obtained from the rating agencies. We cannot assure investors in our Notes that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in the judgment of such rating agencies, circumstances so warrant. Any lowering, suspension or withdrawal of such ratings may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Notes. We and our affiliates may incur additional indebtedness ranking equally to our Notes or secured indebtedness We are not restricted under the terms of the Indenture or our Notes from incurring additional indebtedness, including the issuance of additional debt that ranks on an equal and ratable basis with our Notes. If we incur any additional debt that ranks on an equal and ratable basis with our Notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of our Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with an insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us subject to satisfaction of certain debt limitations. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to you. We also have the ability to incur collateralized debt and such debt would be effectively senior to our Notes to the extent of such collateral. Our Notes are structurally subordinated to the existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries and affiliates Our subsidiaries have not guaranteed our Notes. As a result, our Notes are structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. Therefore, our rights and the rights of our creditors to participate in the assets of any subsidiary in the event that such a subsidiary is liquidated or reorganized are subject to the prior claims of all of such subsidiary’s creditors. As a result, all indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries, whether secured or unsecured, must be satisfied before any of the assets of such subsidiaries would be available for distribution, upon liquidation or otherwise, to us in order for us to meet our obligations with respect to our Notes. If we are a creditor with recognized claims against any subsidiary, our claims would still be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary’s creditors to the extent that they are secured or senior to those held by us. Subject to restrictions contained in financing arrangements, our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness and other liabilities. As of December 31, 2012, our subsidiaries were the obligors on Ch$161,575 million of total debt and the substantial majority of our total consolidated liabilities, excluding CorpBanca Colombia and our New York Branch. The obligations under our Notes are subordinated to certain statutory liabilities Under Chilean bankruptcy law, the obligations under our Notes are subordinated to certain statutory preferences. In the event of liquidation, such statutory preferences, including claims for salaries, wages, secured obligations, social security, taxes and court fees and expenses, will have preference over any other claims, including claims by any investor in respect of our Notes. Our financial performance and other factors could adversely impact our ability to make payments on our Notes Our ability to make scheduled payments with respect to our indebtedness, including our Notes, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. 34 Table of Contents Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and we may not be able to generate cash required to service our debt Our ability to make scheduled payments on our Notes and to meet our other debt service obligations or to refinance our debt depends on our future operating and financial performance and our ability to generate cash. This will be affected by our ability to implement successfully our business strategy, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, technical and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other business needs, we may, among other things, need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, including our Notes, obtain additional financing, delay capital expenditures or sell assets. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash through any of the foregoing ways. If we are not able to refinance any of our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets on commercially favorable terms or at all, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our Notes. If this were to occur, holders of the relevant debt would be able to declare the full amount of that debt due and payable. Our assets may not be sufficient to pay such amounts. Our Notes may be delisted from the Luxembourg Stock Exchange Our Notes are admitted for listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and we will use our reasonable best efforts to maintain such listing. Under Chapter 8, Section 803 of the rules and regulations of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, the Luxembourg Stock Exchange may, on its own initiative, decide upon the delisting of a security from trading on a market when it is of the firm belief that for specific reasons, the normal and consistent market for such security cannot be maintained. A decision for delisting from trading on a market equates to the simultaneous decision for delisting from the official list. Although we cannot assure investors in our Notes as to the liquidity that may result from a listing on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, delisting our Notes from the Luxembourg Stock Exchange may have a material effect on the ability of holders of our Notes to resell our Notes in the secondary market. If any Notes are listed on another exchange, CorpBanca reserves the right to cease a listing for similar reasons. 