ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are identified by the use of the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “will,” “contemplate,” “would”, and similar expressions that contemplate future events. Numerous important factors, risks, and uncertainties may affect our operating results, including, without limitation, risks and uncertainties relating to trends in ATM usage and alternative payment options; declines in, or system failures that interrupt or delay, ATM transactions; the Company’s reliance on third parties for cash management and other key outsourced services; decreases in the number of ATMs that can be placed with the Company’s top merchants; the Company’s ability to continue to execute its growth strategies; risks associated with the acquisition of other ATM networks; increased industry competition; increased regulation and regulatory uncertainty; changes in interest rates; changes in the ATM transaction fees the Company receives; changes in ATM technology; changes in foreign currency rates; and general and economic conditions. As a result, our future results may differ materially from the results implied by these or any other forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations. All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. With this in mind, you should consider the risks discussed elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the SEC from time to time and the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. We depend on ATM transaction fees for substantially all of our revenues, and our revenues would be reduced by a decline in the usage of our ATMs or a decline in the number of ATMs that we operate. Transaction fees charged to cardholders and their financial institutions for transactions processed on our ATMs, including surcharge and interchange transaction fees, have historically accounted for most of our revenues. We expect that revenues from ATM transaction fees, including fees we receive through our bank and network branding surcharge-free offerings, will continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, our future operating results will depend on (1) the continued market acceptance of our services in our target markets, (2) maintaining the level of transaction fees we receive, (3) our ability to install, acquire, operate and retain more ATMs, (4) continued usage of our ATMs by cardholders, and (5) our ability to continue to expand our surcharge-free offerings. For example, increased acceptance of credit and debit cards by merchants and the offering of cash back at the point-of-sale by such merchants could result in decreased usage of our ATMs. In addition, it is possible that alternative technologies to our ATM services will be developed and implemented. If such alternatives are successful, we will likely experience a decline in the usage of our ATMs. Moreover, surcharge fees are set by negotiation between us and our merchant partners and could change over time. Further, growth in surcharge-free ATM networks and widespread consumer bias toward such networks could adversely affect our revenues, even though we maintain our own surcharge-free offerings. Finally, we have recently seen a decline in the average number of ATMs that we operate in the United States. Such decline, which totaled approximately 3.4% in 2006, is primarily due to customer losses experienced on our merchant-owned side of the business, offset somewhat by new company-owned ATM locations that were deployed during the year. The decline in ATMs on the merchant-owned side of the business, which totaled 14.1% in 2006, was due to (i) an internal initiative launched by us to identify and eliminate certain underperforming accounts, and (ii) increased competition from local and regional independent ATM service organizations. We cannot assure you that our ATM transaction fees will not decline in the future. Accordingly, a decline in usage of our ATMs by ATM cardholders or in the levels of fees received by us in connection with such usage, or a decline in the number of ATMs that we operate, would have a negative impact on our revenues and would limit our future growth. The proliferation of payment options other than cash in the United States, including credit cards, debit cards, and stored-value cards, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. The U.S. has seen a shift in consumer payment trends since the late 1990’s, with more customers now opting for electronic forms of payment (e.g., credit cards and debit cards) for their in-store purchases over traditional paper-based forms 10 Table of Contents of payment (e.g., cash and checks). For example, according to the Study of Consumer Payment Preferences for 2005/2006, as prepared by Dove Consulting and the American Bankers Association, paper-based forms of payment constituted roughly 57% of all in-store payments made in 1999 versus only 44% in 2005. While most of the increase in electronic forms of payment during this period came at the expense of traditional checks, the use of cash to fund in-store payments declined from 39% in 1999 to 33% in 2001. Although the use of cash has been relatively stable since that date (remaining at roughly 33% of all in-store payments through 2005), continued growth in electronic payment methods (most notably debit cards and stored-value cards) could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. Interchange fees, which comprise a substantial portion of our ATM transaction revenues, may be lowered at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which our ATM transactions are routed, thus reducing our future revenues. Interchange fees, which represented approximately 24.5% of our total ATM operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, are set by the various EFT networks through which our ATM transactions are routed. Accordingly, if such networks decided to lower the interchange rates paid to us for ATM transactions routed through their networks, our future ATM transaction revenues would decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from ATMs placed with a small number of merchants. If one or more of our top merchants were to cease doing business with us, or to substantially reduce its dealings with us, our revenues could decline. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we derived approximately 19.2% and 17.8%, respectfully, of our total revenues from ATMs placed at the locations of our five largest merchants. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of merchants for a significant percentage of our revenues. The loss of any of our largest merchants, or a decision by any one of them to reduce the number of our ATMs placed in their locations, would decrease our revenues. These merchants may elect not to renew their contracts when they expire. Currently, these contracts have expiration dates as follows (in order of significance): January 31, 2012; December 31, 2013; December 31, 2013; April 30, 2010; and December 31, 2014. Even if such contracts are renewed, the renewal terms may be less favorable to us than the current contracts. If any of our five largest merchants fail to renew their contracts upon expiration, or if the renewal terms with any of them are less favorable to us than under our current contracts, this could result in a decline in our revenues and gross profits. We rely on EFT network providers, transaction processors, and maintenance providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, we could suffer a temporary loss of transaction revenues or the permanent loss of any merchant contract affected by such disruption. We rely on EFT network providers and have agreements with transaction processors and maintenance providers and have more than one such provider in each of these key areas. These providers enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement, and ATM maintenance services to the merchants we serve. Typically, these agreements are for periods of up to two or three years each. If we improperly manage the renewal or replacement of any expiring vendor contract, or if our multiple providers in any one key area failed to provide the services for which we have contracted and disruption of service to our merchants occurs, our relationship with those merchants could suffer. Further, if such disruption of service is significant, the affected merchants may seek to terminate their agreements with us. If we, our transaction processors, our EFT networks or other service providers experience system failures, the ATM products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our in-house processing switch, third-party transaction processors, telecommunications network systems, and other service providers. Although we have tested business continuation plans (as do our critical vendors), and even though our contracts with merchants do not include any guarantees related to network availability problems due to factors beyond our control (which all ATM operators are subject to), any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenue. Additionally, if any such interruption is caused by us, especially in those situations in which we serve as the primary transaction processor, such interruption could result in the loss of the affected merchants or damage our relationships with such merchants. We have not been the cause of any such interruptions in the past. Our systems and operations and those of our transaction processors and our EFT network and other service providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption 11 Table of Contents insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. If not done properly, the transitioning of processing transactions conducted on our ATMs from third-party processors to our own in-house processing switch could lead to service interruptions and/or the inaccurate settlement of funds between the various parties to our ATM transactions, which would harm our business and our relationships with our merchants. We are currently transitioning the processing of transactions conducted on our ATMs from third-party processors to our own in-house processing switch, and expect to have a substantial number of our domestic company-owned and merchant-owned ATMs converted over to such switch by the end of 2007. We currently have very limited experience in ATM transaction processing and have just recently hired additional personnel with experience in running an ATM transaction processing operation. Because this is a relatively new business for us, there is an increased risk that our processing conversion efforts will not be successful, thus resulting in service interruptions for our merchants. Furthermore, if not performed properly, the processing of transactions conducted on our ATMs could result in the inaccurate settlement of funds between the various parties to those transactions, thus exposing us to increased liability. Security breaches could harm our business by compromising customer information and disrupting our ATM transaction processing services, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. As part of our ATM transaction processing services, we electronically process, store, and transmit sensitive cardholder information utilizing our ATMs. Unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or publication of such information or the deletion or modification of sensitive records, and could cause interruptions in our operations. While such security risks are mitigated by the use of encryption techniques, any inability to prevent security breaches could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. Computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our ATM transaction processing services, thus causing non-compliance of network rules and damaging our relationships with our merchant customers. Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, thus disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Although we utilize industry standard anti-virus software and intrusion detection solutions for all of our key applications, any inability to prevent computer viruses could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and cause us to be in non-compliance with applicable network rules and regulations. Operational failures in our ATM transaction processing facilities could harm our business and our relationships with our merchant customers. An operational failure in our ATM transaction processing facilities could harm our business and damage our relationships with our merchant customers. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ATM processing services could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and could cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. We have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or react to such disruptions. However, a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours (i.e., where our backup systems are not able to recover) could result in data loss or a reduction in revenues as our ATMs would be unable to process transactions. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential merchant customers to choose alternative ATM service providers. Errors or omissions in the settlement of merchant funds could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. We are responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for our merchant customers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. This process relies on accurate and authorized maintenance of electronic records. Although we have certain controls in place to help ensure the safety and accuracy of such records, errors or unauthorized changes to these records could result in the erroneous or fraudulent movement of funds, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. 12 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to provide us with the cash we require to operate many of our ATMs. If these third parties were unable or unwilling to provide us with the necessary cash to operate our ATMs, we would need to locate alternative sources of cash to operate our ATMs or we would not be able to operate our business. In the U.S., we rely on agreements with Bank of America, N.A. and with Palm Desert National Bank to provide us with all of the cash that we use in approximately 11,350 of our domestic ATMs where cash is not provided by the merchant. In addition, we rely on an agreement with Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank to provide us with all of the cash that we use in approximately 1,175 of our U.K. ATMs where cash is not provided by the merchant. As of December 31, 2006, the balance of cash held in our domestic ATMs was approximately $421.0 million, over 98% of which was supplied by Bank of America. In the U.K., the balance of cash held in our ATMs as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $113.0 million. We pay a fee for our usage of this cash based on the total amount of vault cash that we are using at any given time. At all times during this process, legal and equitable title of is held by the cash providers, and we have no access or right to the cash. Under our agreements with Bank of America and PDNB, each provider has the right to demand the return of all or any portion of its cash at any time upon the occurrence of certain events beyond our control, including certain bankruptcy events of us or our subsidiaries, or a breach of the terms of our cash provider agreements. Our current agreement with Bank of America expires on October 1, 2008, subject to automatic one-year renewals. In addition, Bank of America may terminate its agreement with us and demand the return of its cash upon 360 days prior written notice. In the U.K., our current agreement with ALCB contains certain provisions, which, if triggered, may allow ALCB to terminate their agreement with us and demand the return of their cash upon 180 days’ written notice. In Mexico, our current ATM cash is provided by Bansi, a regional bank in Mexico and a minority interest owner in Cardtronics Mexico. We currently have an agreement with Bansi to supply us with cash of up to $10.0 million U.S. that expires on March 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2006, the balance of cash held in our ATMs in Mexico was approximately $21.4 million pesos ($2.0 million U.S.) If our cash providers were to demand return of their cash or terminate their arrangements with us and remove their cash from our ATMs, or if they were to fail to provide us with cash as and when we need it for our ATM operations, our ability to operate these ATMs would be jeopardized, and we would need to locate alternative sources of cash in order to operate these ATMs. The ATM industry is highly competitive and such competition may increase, which may adversely affect our profit margins. The ATM business is and can be expected to remain highly competitive. While our principal competition comes from national and regional financial institutions, we also compete with other independent ATM companies in the United States and the United Kingdom. Several of our competitors, namely national financial institutions, are larger, more established, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our competitors could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our ATMs, cause us to reduce the surcharge revenue generated by transactions at our ATMs, or cause us to pay higher merchant fees, thereby reducing our profits. In addition to our current competitors, additional competitors may enter the market. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these current and future competitors. Increased competition could result in transaction fee reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. In the U.K., we face competition from several companies with operations larger than our own. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than our U.K. subsidiary. The election of our merchant customers to not participate in our surcharge-free network offerings could impact the networks’ effectiveness, which would negatively impact our financial results. Financial institutions who are members of our Allpoint and MasterCard surcharge-free networks pay a fee in exchange for allowing their cardholders to use selected Cardtronics’ owned and/or managed ATMs on a surcharge-free basis. The success of these networks is dependent upon the participation by our merchant customers in such networks. In the event a significant number of our merchants elect not to participate in such networks, the benefits and effectiveness of the networks would be diminished, thus potentially causing some of the participating financial institutions to not renew their agreements with us, and thereby negatively impacting our financial results. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to integrate our recent and future acquisitions in an efficient manner and inefficiencies would increase our cost of operations and reduce our profitability. Our acquisitions involve certain inherent risks to our business, including the following: • the operations, technology, and personnel of any acquired companies may be difficult to integrate; • the allocation of management resources to consummate these transactions may disrupt our day-to-day business; and • acquired networks may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow. Such a shortfall could require us to write down the carrying value of the intangible assets associated with any acquired company, which would adversely affect our reported earnings. Since May 2001, we have acquired 13 ATM networks and one surcharge-free ATM network. Prior to our E*TRADE Access acquisition in June 2004, we had acquired only the assets of deployed ATM networks, rather than businesses and their related infrastructure. We currently anticipate that our future acquisitions will likely reflect a mix of asset acquisitions and acquisitions of businesses, with each acquisition having its own set of unique characteristics. To the extent that we elect to acquire an existing company or the operations, technology, and personnel of another ATM provider, we may assume some or all of the liabilities associated with the acquired company and face new and added challenges integrating such acquisition into our operations. Our recent growth, particularly because of the size of our E*TRADE Access and Bank Machine acquisitions, and any future growth may strain our management systems, information systems, and resources. We will need to continue to invest in and improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems, and procedures as we continue to grow and expand our business. As we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees. We may not be able to hire, train, supervise, and manage sufficient personnel or develop management and operating systems to manage our expansion effectively. In addition, our Bank Machine and CCS Mexico acquisitions created, and any future acquisition of ATMs located outside the U.S. will create, additional risks for us to manage, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, difficulties in complying with foreign laws and regulations, staffing and managing foreign operations, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any inability on our part to manage effectively our past or future growth could limit our ability to successfully grow the revenue and profitability of our business. Our international operations involve special risks and may not be successful, which would result in a reduction of our gross profits. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 6.8% of our ATMs are located in the U.K. and Mexico. Such ATMs contributed approximately 21.1% of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect to continue to expand in the U.K. and Mexico and potentially into other countries as opportunities arise. Our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: • exposure to currency fluctuations; • difficulties in complying with foreign laws and regulations; • unexpected changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments or other regulatory bodies; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could reduce the profitability and revenues derived from our international operations and international expansion. 14 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow as well as our ability to operate our business and remain in compliance with debt covenants. As of December 31, 2006, we had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $252.9 million, which represented approximately 86.5% of our total capitalization based on a total book capitalization of $292.3 million. This substantial indebtedness could have the following consequences: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, and adverse changes in government regulation; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs or other purposes; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates and our vault cash rental expense is computed based on market rates of interest. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Although the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and our credit agreement contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our anticipated debt levels, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could intensify. The terms of our credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes (the “Notes”) may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit agreement and the indenture governing our Notes include a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • sell or transfer property or assets; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • merge into or consolidate with any third party; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create certain liens; • make investments; • make certain restricted payments, including the payment of dividends; • engage in transactions with affiliates; 15 Table of Contents • redeem or repurchase capital stock; • issue or sell preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we are required by our credit agreement to maintain specified financial ratios and limits, including a 2.0 to 1.0 ratio of Senior Debt to Earnings, a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio ranging from 1.35 to 1.0 in early 2007 to 1.4 to 1.0 by the end of 2007 and beyond, and limitations on the amount of Capital Expenditures we can incur in any given 12-month period, all of which are defined in the credit agreement. As a result of these ratios and limits, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Notes. A failure to comply with the covenants financial ratios could result in an event of default. In the event of a default under our credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable, to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings or to prevent us from making debt service payments on the Notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes. An acceleration of indebtedness under our credit agreement would also likely result in an event of default under the terms of any other financing arrangement we have outstanding at the time. If any or all of our debt were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings under our bank credit facility when due, the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral securing such indebtedness. Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Therefore, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. There are currently no restrictions limiting the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash available to us, either by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Changes in interest rates could increase our operating costs by increasing interest expense under our credit facilities and our cash management costs. Interest on our outstanding indebtedness under our revolving credit facilities is based on floating interest rates and our vault cash rental expense is based on market rates of interest. As a result, our interest expense and cash management costs are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Vault cash is the cash we use in our machines in cases where cash is not provided by the merchant. We pay rental fees on the average amount outstanding to our vault cash providers in the U.S. and U.K. under a floating rate formula based on LIBOR. In Mexico, we pay a monthly fee to our vault cash provider there under a formula based on TIIE. Recent increases in interest rates in the U.S., the U.K., and Mexico have resulted in increases in our interest expense under our credit facility as well as our vault cash rental expense. Although we currently hedge a substantial portion of our vault cash interest rate risk related to our domestic operations through December 31, 2010, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements for similar amounts in the future. Furthermore, we have not currently entered into any derivative financial instruments to hedge our variable interest rate exposure in the U.K. or Mexico. Any significant future increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our net income, if any, and cash flow by increasing our operating costs and expenses. Please see Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 16 Table of Contents We operate in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. If we are subject to new legislation regarding the operation of our ATMs, we could be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with such legislation, which may reduce our net income and our profit margins. With its initial roots in the banking industry, the ATM industry has always been regulated, if not by individual states, by the rules and regulations of the federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which establishes the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of participants in EFT systems. The vast majority of states have few, if any, licensing requirements. However, legislation related to the ATM industry is periodically proposed at the state and local level. To date, no such legislation has been enacted that materially affects (in an adverse way) our business. We will continue to monitor all such legislation and participate, to the extent possible, to prevent the passage of such laws that we believe are needlessly burdensome or unnecessary. If regulatory legislation is passed in any of the states, we could be required to make substantial expenditures which would reduce our net income. The passing of legislation banning or limiting surcharge fees would severely impact our revenue. Despite the nationwide acceptance of surcharge fees at ATMs, a few consumer activists (most notably in California) have from time to time attempted to impose local bans on surcharge fees. Even in the few instances where these efforts have passed the local governing body (such as with an ordinance adopted by the city of Santa Monica, California), federal courts have overturned these local laws on federal preemption grounds. However, such efforts may resurface and, should the federal courts abandon their adherence to the federal preemption doctrine, such efforts could receive more favorable consideration than in the past. Any successful legislation banning or limiting surcharge fees could result in a substantial loss of revenues and significantly curtail our ability to continue our operations as currently configured. In the U.K., the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons published a report regarding surcharges in the ATM industry in March 2005. This committee was formed to investigate public concerns regarding the ATM industry, including i) adequacy of disclosure to ATM customers regarding surcharges, ii) whether ATM providers should be required to provide free services in low-income areas and iii) whether to limit the level of surcharges. While the Committee made numerous recommendations to Parliament regarding the ATM industry, including that ATMs should be subject to the Banking Code (a voluntary code of practice adopted by all financial institutions in the U.K.), the U.K. government did not accept the Committee’s recommendation. Despite the rejection of the committee’s recommendations, the U.K. government did sponsor an ATM task force to look at social exclusion in relation to ATM services. As a result of the task force’s findings, approximately 600 additional free-to-use ATMs will be installed in low income areas throughout the United Kingdom during 2007. While this is less than a 2 percent increase in free-to-use ATMs through the U.K., there is no certainty that other similar proposals will not be made and accepted in the future. If the legislature or another body with regulatory authority in the U.K. were to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in the U.K. would be negatively impacted. In Mexico, surcharging for off-premise ATMs was legalized in late 2003, but was not formally implemented until July 2005. As such, the charging of fees to consumers to utilize off-premise ATMs is a relatively new experience in Mexico. Accordingly, it is too soon to predict whether public concerns over surcharging will surface in Mexico. However, if such concerns were to be raised, and if the applicable legislative or regulatory bodies in Mexico decided to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in Mexico would be negatively impacted. The passing of legislation requiring modifications to be made to ATMs could severely impact our cash flows. Under a current ruling of the U.S. District Court, it was determined that the United States’ currencies (as currently designed) violate the Rehabilitation Act, as the paper currencies issued by the U.S. are identical in size and color, regardless of denomination. Under the ruling, the U.S. Treasury Department has been ordered to develop ways in which to differentiate paper currency such that an individual who is visually-impaired would be able to distinguish between the different denominations. While it is still uncertain at this time what the outcome of the appeals process will be, in the event the current ruling is not overturned, participants in the ATM industry (including us) would be forced to incur significant costs to upgrade current machines’ hardware and software components. If required, such capital expenditures could limit our free cash such that we do not have enough cash available for the execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs, or other purposes. 17 Table of Contents The passing of anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose certain merchant accounts, thus reducing our revenues. Recent concerns by the U.S. federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, such regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs by individual merchants who load their own cash, thereby making their ATMs less profitable. Accordingly, some individual merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues. Material weaknesses identified in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement to our financial statements as well as result in our inability to file periodic reports within the time periods required by federal securities laws. As a public company, we are required to design, implement, and maintain effective controls over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain control deficiencies, which represent material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses resulted in, or contributed to, adjustments to our financial statements and, in certain cases, restatement of prior financial statements. While we have taken action to remediate the identified weaknesses, we cannot provide assurance that the measures we have taken or any future measures will adequately remediate the material weaknesses identified by our independent registered public accounting firm. Failure to implement new or improved controls, or any difficulties encountered in the implementation of such controls, could result in a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Such material misstatement could require us to restate our financial statements or otherwise cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Additionally, failure to remediate the material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. The rules of the SEC require that, as a publicly-traded company, we file periodic reports containing our financial statements within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual fiscal periods. Any failure by us to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC may result in a number of adverse consequences that could materially and adversely impact our business, including, without limitation, potential action by the SEC against us, possible defaults under our debt arrangements, shareholder lawsuits, and general damage to our reputation. Finally, any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that will be required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 