ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on ATM and financial services transaction fees for substantially all of our revenues, and our revenues and profits would be reduced by a decline in the usage of our ATMs and financial services kiosks or a decline in the number of devices that we operate, whether as a result of global economic conditions or otherwise. Transaction fees charged to cardholders and their financial institutions for transactions processed on our ATMs and financial services kiosks, including surcharge and interchange transaction fees, have historically accounted for most of our revenues. We expect that transaction fees, including fees we receive through our bank branding and surcharge-free network offerings, will continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, our future operating results will depend on (1) the continued market acceptance of our services in our target markets, (2) maintenance of the level of transaction fees we receive, (3) our ability to install, acquire, operate, and retain more devices, (4) continued usage of our devices by cardholders, and (5) our ability to continue to expand ou r surcharge-free and other consumer financial services offerings. If alternative technologies to our services are successfully developed and implemented, we will likely experience a decline in the usage of our devices. Surcharge fees, which are determined through negotiations between us and our merchant partners, could be reduced over time. Further, growth in surcharge-free ATM networks and widespread consumer bias toward these networks could adversely affect our revenues, even though we maintain our own surcharge-free offerings. Many of our devices are utilized by consumers that frequent the retail establishments in which our devices are located, including convenience stores, malls, grocery stores, pharmacies, and other large retailers. If there is a significant slowdown in consumer spending, and the number of consumers that frequent the retail establishments in which we operate our devices declines significantly, the number of transactions conducted on those devices, and the corresponding transaction fees we earn, may also decline. Although we experienced an increase in our monthly ATM operating revenues per device during 2010, it cannot be assured that our transaction revenues will not decline in the future. A decline in usage of our devices by cardholders or in the levels of fees received by us in connection with this usage, or a decline in the number of devices that we operate, would have a negative impact on our revenues and would limit our future growth. In the United States, the proliferation of payment options other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, and stored-value cards, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. The United States has seen a shift in consumer payment trends since the late 1990’s, with more customers now opting for electronic forms of payment (e.g., credit cards and debit cards) for their in-store purchases over traditional paper-based forms of payment (e.g., cash and checks). Additionally, merchants are now offering free cash back at the point-of-sale for customers that utilize debit cards for their purchases, thus providing an additional incentive for consumers to use these cards. According to the Nilson Report issued in December 2010, cash transaction counts declined from approximately 37% of all payment transactions in 2005 to approximately 34% in 2009, with declines also seen in check usage as credit, debit and stored-value card transactions increased. However, in terms of absolute dollar value, the v olume of cash used in payment transactions actually increased from $1.4 trillion in 2005 to $1.6 trillion in 2009. Furthermore, in the past few years, we saw an increase in the number of cash withdrawal transactions conducted on our domestic ATMs, in part due to the proliferation of stored-value cards, thus implying a continued demand for cash and convenient, reliable access to that cash. Regardless, the continued growth in electronic payment methods could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and ultimately, a decline in the usage of our ATMs. Interchange fees, which comprise a substantial portion of our transaction revenues, may be lowered at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which our transactions are routed, or through potential regulatory changes, thus reducing our future revenues. Interchange fees, which represented approximately 30% of our total ATM operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, are set by the various EFT networks through which transactions conducted on our devices are routed. Interchange fees are set by each network and typically vary from one network to the next. Accordingly, if some or all of the networks through which our ATM transactions are routed were to reduce the interchange rates paid to us or increase their transaction fees charged to us for routing transactions across their network, or both, our future transaction revenues could decline. 15 During 2010, certain networks reduced the net interchange fees paid to ATM deployers for transactions routed through their networks. For example, effective April 1, 2010, a global network brand reduced the interchange rates it pays to domestic ATM deployers for ATM transactions routed across its debit network. As a result, we saw certain financial institutions migrate their volume away from other networks to take advantage of the lower pricing offered by this network. Additionally, interchange rates in the United Kingdom, which are set by LINK, the United Kingdom’s primary ATM debit network, declined effective as of January 1, 2011. LINK sets the interchange rates in the United Kingdom annually by using a cost-based methodology that incorporates the interest rates and cash costs from the previous year. As a resul t, the interchange revenues generated by certain of our ATMs in that market will decline in 2011. Based on the number of cash withdrawal transactions in 2010 which we were paid interchange, and based on the average foreign currency exchange rate during 2010, we expect our interchange revenues in the United Kingdom to decline by approximately $4.1 million in 2011. Finally, some federal officials in the United States have expressed concern that consumers using an ATM may not be aware that in addition to paying the surcharge fee that is disclosed to them at the ATM, their financial institution may also assess an additional fee to offset any interchange fee assessed to the financial institution by the EFT networks with regard to that consumer’s transaction. While there are currently no pending legislative actions calling for limits on the amount of interchange fees that can be charged by the EFT networks to financial institutions for ATM transactions, there can be no assurance that such legislative actions will not occur in the future. Any potential future network or legislative actions that affect the amount of interchange fees that can be assessed on a transaction may adversely affect our revenues. Historically, we have been successful in offsetting the effects of any such reductions in interchange fees received by us through changes in our business. However, we can give no assurances that we will be successful in offsetting the effects of any future reductions in the interchange fees received by us, if and when they occur. We operate in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. If we are subject to new legislation regarding the operation of our ATMs, we could be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with that legislation, which may reduce our net income and our profit margins. With its initial roots in the banking industry, the United States ATM industry is regulated by the rules and regulations of the federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which establishes the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of participants in EFT systems. The vast majority of states have few, if any, licensing requirements. However, legislation related to the United States ATM industry is periodically proposed at the state and local level. Additionally, the recent increase in surcharge fees by several large financial institutions has prompted certain members of the U.S. Congress to call for a reexamination of the interchange and surcharge fees that consumers are charged at an ATM. To date, no such legislation has been enacted that materially adversely affects our business. However, an amendment proposing limits on the fees that ATM operators, including financial institutions, can charge consumers was recently introduced in the United States Senate, but was not ultimately included in the final version of the Dodd-Frank Act that was signed into law. For further discussion on this topic, see the risk factor below entitled The passing of legislation banning or limiting the fees we receive for transactions conducted on our ATMs would severely impact our revenues. In the United Kingdom, the ATM industry is largely self-regulating. Most ATMs in the United Kingdom are part of the LINK network and must operate under the network rules set forth by LINK, including complying with rules regarding required signage and screen messages. Additionally, legislation is proposed from time-to-time at the national level, though nothing to date has been enacted that materially affects our business. Finally, the ATM industry in Mexico has been historically operated by financial institutions. Banco de Mexico supervises and regulates ATM operations of both financial institutions and non-bank ATM deployers. Although Banco de Mexico’s regulations permit surcharge fees to be charged in ATM transactions, new rules became effective in May 2010 that required ATM operators to elect between receiving interchange fees from card-issuing banks or surcharge fees from consumers. For further discussion on this topic, see the risk factor below entitled The passing of legislation banning or limiting the fees we receive for transactions conducted on our ATMs would severely impact our revenues. In addition, in order for a non-bank ATM deployer to provide ATM services in Mexico, the deployer must be affiliated with PROSA-RED or E-Global, which are credit card and debit card proprietary networks that transmit information and settle ATM transactions between their participants. As only financial institutions are allowed to be participants of PROSA-RED or E-Global, Cardtronics Mexico entered into a joint venture with Bansi, who is a member of PROSA-RED. As a financial institution, Bansi and all entities in which it participates, including Cardtronics Mexico, are regulated by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and supervised by the Banking and Securities Commission. Additionally, Cardtronics Mexico is subject to the provisions of the Law of the Bank of Mexico, the Mexican Banking Law, and the Law for the Transparency and Organization of Financial Services. Legislation proposed by any of these regulatory bodies, or adverse changes in the laws that we are subject to, may materially affect our business through the requirement of additional expenditures to comply with that legislation. 16 We will continue to monitor all such legislation and attempt, to the extent possible, to prevent the passage of such laws that we believe are needlessly burdensome or unnecessary. If regulatory legislation is passed in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we could be required to make substantial expenditures which would reduce our net income. Deterioration in global credit markets, as well as changes in legislative and regulatory requirements, could have a negative impact on financial institutions that we conduct business with. We have a significant number of customer and vendor relationships with financial institutions in all of our key markets, including relationships in which those financial institutions pay us for the right to place their brands on our devices. Additionally, we rely on a small number of financial institution partners to provide us with the cash that we maintain in our Company-owned devices and some of our merchant owned ATMs. Turmoil in the global credit markets in the future, such as that recently experienced, may have a negative impact on those financial institutions and our relationships with them. In particular, if the liquidity positions of the financial institutions with which we conduct business deteriorate significantly, these institutions may be unable to perform under their existing agreements with us. If these defaults were to occur, we may not be successful in our efforts to identify new branding partners and cash providers, and the underlying economics of any new arrangements may not be consistent with our current arrangements. Furthermore, if our existing bank branding partners or cash providers are acquired by other institutions with assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (“FDIC”), or placed into receivership by the FDIC, it is possible that our agreements may be rejected in part or in their entirety. Finally, in response to the recent economic crisis, the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains broad measures that will affect almost all financial institutions within the United States, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Among many other things, the Act includes provisions that (1) call for the establishment of a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, (2) limit the activities that banking entities may engage in, and (3) give the Federal Reserve Bank the authority to regulate interchange transaction fees charged by electronic funds transfer networks for electronic debit transactions. Many of the detailed regulations required under the Act have yet to be finalized and are currently required to be finalized on or before July 31, 2011. As such, it is unclear at this point what impact these new regulations will ultimately have on financial institutions with whom we conduct business. However, if those financial institutions are negatively impacted by such regulations, our future operating results may be similarly impacted. Further consolidations within the banking industry may impact our branding relationships as existing branding customers are acquired by other financial institutions, some of which may not be existing branding customers. In recent years, an unprecedented amount of consolidation unfolded within the United States banking industry. For example, Washington Mutual, which had over 950 ATMs branded with us, was acquired by JPMorgan Chase, an existing branding customer of ours, in 2008. Additionally, Wachovia, which had 15 high-transaction ATMs branded with us, was acquired by Wells Fargo, a bank that was not an existing branding customer of ours, at the end of 2008. Furthermore, in 2009, Sovereign Bank, which currently has over 1,150 ATMs branded with us, was acquired by Banco Santander, one of the largest banks in Europe. Although our branding contracts were largely unaffected by these transactions, we cannot assure you that they will remain unaffected by future consolidations that may occur within the banking industry, and in particular, ou r branding partners. We rely on third parties to provide us with the cash we require to operate many of our devices. If these third parties were unable or unwilling to provide us with the necessary cash to operate our devices, we would need to locate alternative sources of cash to operate our devices or we would not be able to operate our business. In the United States, including Puerto Rico, we rely on Bank of America, Wells Fargo, and Elan to provide us with the cash that we use in over 20,100 of our domestic devices where cash is not provided by the merchant (“vault cash”). In the United Kingdom, we rely on ALCB to provide us with the vault cash that we use in over 2,700 of our ATMs. Finally, Bansí, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple (“Bansi”) is our sole vault cash provider in Mexico and provides us with the cash that we use in over 2,700 of our ATMs in that market. Under our vault cash rental agreements with these providers, we pay a vault cash rental fee based on the total amount of vault cash that we are using at any given time. As of December 31, 2010, the balance of vault cash held in our United States, United King dom, and Mexico ATMs and financial services kiosks was approximately $1.1 billion, $226.2 million, and $40.4 million, respectively. 17 Under our vault cash rental agreements, at all times during this process, beneficial ownership of the cash is retained by the cash providers, and we have no access or right to the cash except for those ATMs that are serviced by our wholly-owned armored courier operation in the United Kingdom. While our armored courier operation has physical access to the cash loaded in those machines, beneficial ownership of that cash remains with the cash provider at all times. Our existing vault cash rental agreements expire at various times from March 2012 through December 2013. However, each provider has the right to demand the return of all or any portion of its cash at any time upon the occurrence of certain events beyond our control, including certain bankruptcy events of us or our subsidiaries, or a breach of the terms of our cash provider agreements. Other key terms of our agreements include the requirement that the cash providers provide written notice of their intent not to renew. Such notice provisions typically require a minimum of 180 to 360 days’ notice prior to the actual termination date. If such notice is not received, then the contracts will typically automatically renew for an additional one-year period. Additionally, our contract with one of our vault cash providers contains a provision that allows the provider to modify the pricing terms contained within the agreement at any time with 90 days prior written notice. However, in the event both parties do not agree to the pricing modifications, then either party may provide 180 days prior written notice of its intent to terminate. If our vault cash providers were to demand return of their cash or terminate their arrangements with us and remove their cash from our devices, or if they fail to provide us with cash as and when we need it for our operations, our ability to operate our devices would be jeopardized, and we would need to locate alternative sources of vault cash. In the event this was to happen, the terms and conditions of the new or renewed agreements could potentially be less favorable to us, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, restrictions on our access to cash to fill our devices could severely restrict our ability to keep our devices operating, and could subject us to contracted performance penalties. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from devices placed with a small number of merchants. If one or more of our top merchants were to cease doing business with us, or to substantially reduce its dealings with us, our revenues could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived 52.7% of our total revenues from ATMs and financial services kiosks placed at the locations of our five largest merchant customers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our top five merchants (based on our total revenues) were 7-Eleven, CVS, Walgreens, Target, and Hess. 7-Eleven, which is the single largest merchant customer in our portfolio, comprised approximately 34% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Accordingly, a significant percentage of our future revenues and operating income will be dependent upon the successful continuation of our relationship with 7-Eleven as well as our other top merchants. The loss of any of our largest merchants or a decision by any one of them to reduce the number of our devices placed in their locations would result in a decline in our revenues. Furthermore, if their financial condition were to deteriorate in the future and, as a result, one of more of these merchants was required to close a significant number of their domestic store locations, our revenues would be significantly impacted. Additionally, these merchants may elect not to renew their contracts when they expire. The contracts we have with our top five merchants have expiration dates of July 20, 2017; January 6, 2014; December 31, 2013; January 31, 2016; and December 31, 2013, respectively. Even if such contracts are renewed, the renewal terms may be less favorable to us than the current contracts. If any of our five large st merchants enters bankruptcy proceedings and rejects its contract with us, fails to renew its contract upon expiration, or if the renewal terms with any of them are less favorable to us than under our current contracts, it could result in a decline in our revenues and gross profits. In May 2009, we settled a long-standing lawsuit with one of our merchant customers who was the seventh and fifth largest merchant customer in our portfolio (based on revenues) during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In accordance with the settlement, our placement agreement with this merchant and the related bank branding agreement associated with those ATMs were terminated. Furthermore, in May 2010, we were unable to renew our agreement with one of our merchant customers who was the sixth and seventh largest merchant customer in our portfolio (based on revenues) during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As a result of these losses, our revenues were negatively impacted during 2009 and 2010, and will continue to be negatively impacted in the future. Any additional losses of our large merchant customers could result in further declines in our revenues and gross profits. 18 A substantial portion of our revenues and operating profits are generated by our merchant relationship with 7- Eleven. Accordingly, if 7-Eleven’s financial condition deteriorates in the future and it is required to close some or all of its store locations, or if our placement agreement with 7-Eleven expires or is terminated, our future financial results would be significantly impaired. 7-Eleven is the single largest merchant customer in our portfolio, representing approximately 34% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Accordingly, a significant percentage of our future revenues and operating income will be dependent upon the successful continuation of our relationship with 7-Eleven. If 7- Eleven’s financial condition were to deteriorate in the future and, as a result, it was required to close a significant number of its domestic store locations, our financial results would be significantly impacted. Additionally, while the underlying placement agreement with 7-Eleven has an initial term of 10 years, we may not be successful in renewing such agreement with 7-Eleven upon the end of that initial term, or such renewal may occur with terms and conditions that are not as favora ble to us as those contained in the current agreement. Furthermore, the placement agreement executed with 7-Eleven contains certain terms and conditions that, if we fail to meet such terms and conditions, gives 7-Eleven the right to terminate the placement agreement or our exclusive right to provide certain services. We rely on EFT network providers, transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers to provide services to our ATMs. If some of these providers that service a significant number of our ATMs fail or no longer agree to provide their services, we could suffer a temporary loss of transaction revenues or the permanent loss of any merchant contract affected by such disruption. We rely on EFT network providers and have agreements with transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers and have more than one such provider in each of these key areas. These providers enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement, and cash management and maintenance services to the merchants we serve. Typically, these agreements are for periods of up to two or three years each. If we improperly manage the renewal or replacement of any expiring vendor contract, or a key vendor failed to provide the services for which we have contracted and disruption of service to our merchants occurs, our relationship with those merchants could suffer. While we do have more than one provider for each of the services that we rely on third parties to perform, certain of these providers currently service a significant number of our ATMs. Although we may be able to transition these services to alternative service providers, this could be a time-consuming and costly process. In the event one of such service providers was unable to deliver services to us, we could suffer a significant disruption in our business, which could result in a material impact to our financial results. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2007 and the full year of 2008, our results of operations were negatively impacted by a higher percentage of downtime experienced by our ATMs in the United Kingdom as a result of certain third-party service-related issues. If such disruption of service should recur, our relationships with the affected merchants could be materially negatively impacted. Furthermore, any disruptions in service in any of our markets, whether caused by us or by third party providers, may result in a loss of revenues under certain of our contractual arrangements that contain minimum service-level requirements. Additionally, in February 2010, Mount Vernon Money Center (“MVMC”), one of our third-party armored service providers in the Northeast United States, ceased all cash replenishment operations for its customers following the arrest of its founder and principal owner on charges of bank fraud. Shortly thereafter, the U.S. District Court in the Southern District of New York (the “SDNY”) appointed a receiver (the “Receiver”) to, among other things, seize all of the assets in the possession of MVMC. As a result of these actions, we were required to convert over 1,000 ATMs that were being serviced by MVMC to another third-party armored service provider, resulting in a minor amount of downtime being experienced by those ATMs and some one-time service conversion costs. Further, based upon a federal indictment in the SDNY of MVMC’s President and of its Chief Operating Officer (the “Indictment”), it appears that all or some of the cash which was delivered to MVMC’s vaults for the sole purpose of loading such cash into our ATMs was misappropriated by MVMC. We estimate that, immediately prior to the cessation of MVMC’s operations, the amount of vault cash that MVMC should have been holding for loading into our ATMs totaled approximately $16.2 million. 19 The Indictment alleges that the defendants defrauded multiple financial institutions and seeks the forfeiture to the United States government from the defendants in an amount of at least $75 million. In September 2010, MVMC’s President pleaded guilty to one or more of the counts set forth in the Indictment and a $70 million judgment was entered against him. With such conviction, it is our belief that the U.S. Government will distribute forfeited assets it obtains to the victims of the crime. We intend to seek recovery from such forfeited assets. Additionally, on May 27, 2010, MVMC, under the control of the Receiver, filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Accordingly, at this point, it is uncertain what amount, if any, may ultimately be made available to us fro m the vault cash seized by law enforcement authorities, other assets that may be forfeited to the United States government, other assets controlled by the Receiver or in the MVMC bankruptcy estate, or from other potential sources of recovery, including proceeds from any insurance policies held by MVMC and/or its owner. Regardless, we currently believe that our existing insurance policies will cover any residual cash losses resulting from this incident, less related deductible payments. Because we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of residual cash losses that may ultimately result from this incident at this point in time, no contingent loss has been reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. If new information comes to light and the recovery of any resulting cash losses is no longer deemed to be probable, we may be required to recognize such losses without a corresponding insurance receivable. If we, our transaction processors, our EFT networks or other service providers experience system failures, the products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our EFT transaction processing platform, third-party transaction processors, telecommunications network systems, and other service providers. Accordingly, any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenues. Additionally, if any such interruption is caused by us, especially in those situations in which we serve as the primary transaction processor, such interruption could result in the loss of the affected merchants or damage our relationships with such merchants. Our systems and operations and those of our transaction processors and our EFT network and other service providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful a cts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. Our armored transport business exposes us to additional risks beyond those currently experienced by us in the ownership and operation of ATMs. During 2008, we implemented our own armored courier operation in the United Kingdom which was further expanded to two cash depot facilities during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we were providing armored services to approximately 1,380 (about half) of our ATMs in that market. The armored transport business exposes us to significant risks, including the potential for cash-in-transit losses, as well as claims for personal injury, wrongful death, worker's compensation, punitive damages, and general liability. While we will seek to maintain appropriate levels of insurance to adequately protect us from these risks, there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant future claims or adverse publicity related thereto. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover potential liabilities or that insurance coverage will remain available at costs that are acceptable to us. The availability of quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in our ability to successfully operate this aspect of our operations. A successful claim brought against us for which coverage is denied or that is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches could harm our business by compromising customer information and disrupting our transaction processing services, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. As part of our transaction processing services, we electronically process and transmit sensitive cardholder information. In recent years, companies that process and transmit this information have been specifically and increasingly targeted by sophisticated criminal organizations in an effort to obtain the information and utilize it for fraudulent transactions. Unauthorized access to our computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could result in the theft or publication of the information or the deletion or modification of sensitive records, and could cause interruptions in our operations. While the security risks outlined above are mitigated by the use of encryption and other techniques, any inability to prevent security breaches could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expos e us to liability. 20 Computer viruses or unauthorized software (malware) could harm our business by disrupting our transaction processing services, causing noncompliance with network rules and damaging our relationships with our merchant customers. Computer viruses or malware could infiltrate our systems, thus disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Although we utilize several preventative and detective security controls in our network, any inability to prevent computer viruses or malware could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and cause us to be in non-compliance with applicable network rules and regulations. Operational failures in our EFT transaction processing facilities could harm our business and our relationships with our merchant customers. An operational failure in our EFT transaction processing facilities could harm our business and damage our relationships with our merchant customers. Damage or destruction that interrupts our transaction processing services could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and could cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. We have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or react to such disruptions. However, a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours (i.e., where our backup systems are not able to recover) could result in data loss or a reduction in revenues as our devices would be unable to process transactions. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our rep utation and could cause our present and potential merchant customers to choose alternative service providers, as well as subject us to fines or penalties related to contractual service agreements. Errors or omissions in the settlement of merchant funds could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. We are responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for our merchant customers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. This process relies on accurate and authorized maintenance of electronic records. Although we have certain controls in place to help ensure the safety and accuracy of our records, errors or unauthorized changes to these records could result in the erroneous or fraudulent movement of funds, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. Changes in interest rates could increase our operating costs by increasing interest expense under our credit facilities and our vault cash rental costs. Interest on amounts borrowed under our revolving credit facility is based on a floating interest rate, and our vault cash rental expense is partially based on floating interest rates. As a result, our interest expense and cash management costs are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Vault cash is the cash we use in our machines in cases where cash is not provided by the merchant. We pay rental fees on the average amount of vault cash outstanding in our ATMs under floating rate formulas based on a spread above various LIBOR rates to Bank of America, Wells Fargo, and Elan in the United States (including Puerto Rico) and ALCB in the United Kingdom. Additionally, in Mexico, we pay a monthly rental fee to our vault cash provider under a formula based on the Interbank Equilibrium Interest Rate (commonly referred to as th e “TIIE”). Although we currently hedge a significant portion of our vault cash interest rate risk related to our operations in the United States through December 31, 2016 and in the United Kingdom through December 31, 2013 by using interest rate swap agreements, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements for similar amounts in the future. Furthermore, we have not currently entered into any derivative financial instruments to hedge our variable interest rate exposure in Mexico. Any significant future increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow by increasing our operating costs and expenses. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Disclosure about Market Risk; Interest Rate Risk. 21 We maintain a significant amount of cash within our Company-owned devices, which is subject to potential loss due to theft or other events, including natural disasters. As of December 31, 2010, there was approximately $1.4 billion in vault cash held in our domestic and international devices. Although legal and equitable title to such cash is held by the cash providers, any loss of such cash from our ATMs through theft or other means is typically our responsibility. We typically require that our cash service providers maintain adequate insurance coverage in the event cash losses occur as a result of misconduct or negligence on the part of such providers. However, we also maintain our own insurance policies to cover a significant portion of any losses that may occur that may ultimately not be covered by the insurance policies maintained by our service providers. In the event we incur losses that are covered by our insurance carriers, we will be required to fund a portion of those losses through the payment of any related deductible amounts under those policies. Furthermore, any increase in the frequency and/or amounts of such thefts and losses could negatively impact our operating results as a result of higher deductible payments and increased insurance premiums. Additionally, any damage sustained to our merchant customers’ store locations in connection with any ATM-related thefts, if extensive and frequent enough in nature, could negatively impact our relationships with such merchants and impair our ability to deploy additional ATMs in those locations (or new locations) with those merchants in the future. Finally, impacted merchants may request, and have requested on a limited basis, that we remove ATMs from store locations that have suffered damage as a result of ATM-related thefts, thus negatively impacting our financial results. The ATM industry is highly competitive and such competition may increase, which may adversely affect our profit margins. The ATM business is and can be expected to remain highly competitive. Our principal competition comes from independent ATM companies in the United States and the United Kingdom, and national and regional financial institutions in the United Kingdom and Mexico. Additionally, we experience competition from national and regional financial institutions in the United States that are not currently bank branding customers or members of our Allpoint surcharge-free ATM network. Our competitors could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our devices, cause us to reduce the surcharge revenue generated by transactions at our devices, or cause us to pay higher merchant fees, thereby reducing our profits. In addition to our current competitors, additional competitors may enter the market. We can offer no a ssurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these current and future competitors. Increased competition could result in transaction fee reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. The election of our merchant customers to not participate in our surcharge-free network offerings could impact the networks’ effectiveness, which would negatively impact our financial results. Financial institutions that are members of Allpoint pay a fee in exchange for allowing their cardholders to use selected Company-owned and/or managed ATMs on a surcharge-free basis. The success of Allpoint is dependent upon the participation by our merchant customers in such networks. In the event a significant number of our merchants elect not to participate in such networks, the benefits and effectiveness of the networks would be diminished, thus potentially causing some of the participating financial institutions to not renew their agreements with us, and thereby negatively impacting our financial results. We may be unable to integrate our future acquisitions in an efficient manner and inefficiencies would increase our cost of operations and reduce our profitability. We have been an active business acquirer both in the United States and internationally, and may continue to be active in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses involves a number of risks. The core risks are in the areas of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology and other assets so as to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of the companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. In addition, acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows. Any shortfall in anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows could require us to write down the carrying value of the intangible assets associated with any acquired company, which would adversely affect our reported earnings. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $50.0 million impairment charge to write down the value of the goodwill associated with our investment in our United Kingdom operations. 22 Since May 2001, we have acquired 14 ATM networks and one surcharge-free ATM network. Prior to our E*TRADE Access acquisition in June 2004, we had acquired only the assets of deployed ATM networks, rather than businesses and their related infrastructure. We currently anticipate that our future acquisitions will likely reflect a mix of asset acquisitions and acquisitions of businesses, with each acquisition having its own set of unique characteristics. To the extent that we elect to acquire an existing company or the operations, technology, and personnel of another ATM provider, we may assume some or all of the liabilities associated with the acquired company and face new and added challenges integrating such acquisition into our operations. Any inability on our part to effectively manage our past or future growth could limit our ability to successfully grow the revenue and profitability of our business. Our international operations involve special risks and may not be successful, which would result in a reduction of our gross profits. As of December 31, 2010, 16.0% of our devices were located in the United Kingdom and Mexico. Those devices contributed 15.4% of our gross profits (exclusive of depreciation, accretion, and amortization) for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect to continue to expand in the United Kingdom and Mexico and potentially into other countries as opportunities arise. However, our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: · exposure to currency fluctuations, including the risk that our future reported operating results could be negatively impacted by unfavorable movements in the functional currencies of our international operations relative to the United States dollar, which represents our consolidated reporting currency; · difficulties in complying with the different laws and regulations in each country and jurisdiction in which we operate, including unique labor and reporting laws; · unexpected changes in laws, regulations, and policies of foreign governments or other regulatory bodies, including changes that could potentially disallow surcharging or that could result in a reduction in the amount of interchange or other transaction fees received per transaction; · unanticipated political and social instability that may be experienced; · rising crime rates in certain of the areas we operate in, including increased incidents of crimes against store personnel where our ATMs are located; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including hiring and retaining skilled workers in those countries in which we operate; · decreased ATM usage related to decreased travel and tourism in the markets that we operate in, such as our ATMs in Mexico that are located in tourist destinations; and · potential adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of foreign earnings. Any of these factors could reduce the profitability and revenues derived from our international operations and international expansion. For example, during the latter half of 2008 and during 2009, we incurred reduced reported revenues as a consequence of the United States dollar strengthening relative to the British pound and Mexican peso. Additionally, the recent regulatory changes in Mexico have had an adverse impact on our transaction volumes in that market. Furthermore, the recent political and social instability in Mexico resulting from an increase in drug-related violence could negatively impact the level of transactions incurred on our existing devices in that market, as well as our ability to successfully grow our business there. See further discussion on this topic in the above risk factor entitled The passing of legislation banning or limiting the fees we receive for transactions conducted on our ATMs would severely impact our revenues. 23 Our possible expansion efforts into new international markets involve unique risks and may not be successful. We may continue to expand our operations internationally with a likely focus on high growth emerging markets, such as those in Central and Eastern Europe, Central and South America, and the Asia-Pacific region. Because the off-premise ATM industry is relatively undeveloped in these emerging markets, we may not be successful in these expansion efforts. In particular, many of these markets do not currently employ or support an off-premise ATM surcharging model, meaning that we would have to rely on interchange fees as our primary source of revenues. While we have had some success in deploying non-surcharging ATMs in selected markets, such a model requires significant transaction volumes to make it economically feasible to purchase and deploy ATMs. Furthermore, most of the ATMs in these markets are owned and operated by f inancial institutions, thus increasing the risk that cardholders would be unwilling to utilize an off-premise ATM with an unfamiliar brand. Finally, the regulatory environments in many of these markets are evolving and unpredictable, thus increasing the risk that a particular deployment model chosen at inception may not be economically viable in the future. If we experience impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, we will be required to record a charge to earnings, which may be significant. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and are required to perform periodic assessments for any possible impairment for accounting purposes. As of December 31, 2010, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $239.4 million, or 52.6% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate the recoverability and the amortization period of our intangible assets under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). Some of the factors that we consider to be important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include the performance of the related assets relative to the expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or econ omic trends. These factors, assumptions, and any changes in them could result in an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. In the event we determine our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements, which would negatively impact our results of operations and that impact could be material. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $50.0 million goodwill impairment charge. Additionally, during the years ended December 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded $0.2 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, in net impairment charges associated with intangibles related to our acquired merchant contracts/relationships. Other impairment charges in the future may also adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, the new and potential regulatory issues facing our Mexico operations could result in the potential impairment of assets associated with those operations. Although the annual impairment test performed at December 31, 2010 did not indicate an impairment of goodwill related to our Mexico operations, the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of that reporting unit significantly decreased compared to a year ago. We have plans to mitigate the impact of the decreased transaction levels in Mexico, and have several initiatives that are currently being developed, which, if successful, would likely generate better operating results than the estimated results in the analysis. For further discussion on this topic, see the above risk factor entitled T he passing of legislation banning or limiting the fees we receive for transactions conducted on our ATMs would severely impact our revenues. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $254.8 million, which represents 85.2% of our total capitalization of $299.1 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow in the future to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, and adverse changes in government regulation; and · limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs, or other purposes. 24 Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. The terms of our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes include a number of covenants that, among other items, restrict or limit our ability to: · sell or transfer property or assets; · pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; · merge into or consolidate with any third party; · create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; · create certain liens; · make investments; · engage in transactions with affiliates; · issue or sell preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries; and · enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we are required by our credit agreement to adhere to certain covenants and maintain specified financial ratios. While we currently have the ability to borrow the full amount available under our credit agreement, as a result of these ratios, we may be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business in the future and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance our future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. A failure to comply with the covenants or financial ratios could result in an event of default. In the event of a default under our credit agreement, the lenders could exercise a number of remedies, some of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the senior subordinated notes. An acceleration of indebtedness under our credit agreement would also likely result in an event of default under the terms of any other financing arrangement we have outstanding at the time. If any or all of our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay our indebtedness in full. If we are unable to repay any amounts outstanding under our bank credit facility when due, the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral securing our indebtedness. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Facilities. We incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur losses again in the future. Although we generated a net profit in the last two years of $41.0 million and $5.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, we incurred net losses in the preceding years. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $56.0 million. There can be no guarantee that we will continue to achieve profitability in the future. Even if we continue to be profitable, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The passing of legislation banning or limiting the fees we receive for transactions conducted on our ATMs would severely impact our revenues. Despite the nationwide acceptance of surcharge fees at ATMs in the United States since their introduction in 1996, consumer activists have from time to time attempted to impose local bans or limits on surcharge fees. Even in the few instances where these efforts have passed the local governing body (such as with an ordinance adopted by the city of Santa Monica, California), federal courts have overturned these local laws on federal preemption grounds. Although Section 1044 of the Dodd-Frank Act passed in July 2010 contains a provision that will limit the application of federal preemption with respect to state laws that do not discriminate against national banks, federal preemption will not be affected by local municipal laws, where such proposed bans or limits often arise. More recently, some federal officials have exp ressed concern that surcharge fees charged by banks and non-bank ATM operators are unfair to consumers. To that end, an amendment proposing limits on the fees that ATM operators, including financial institutions, can charge consumers was recently introduced in the United States Senate, but was not ultimately included in the final version of the Dodd-Frank Act that was signed into law. If similar proposed legislation were to be enacted in the future, and the amount we were able to charge for consumers to use our ATMs was reduced, our revenues and related profitability would be negatively impacted. Furthermore, if such limits were set at levels that are below our current or future costs to operate our ATMs, it would have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate under our current business model. 25 In the United Kingdom, the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons published a report regarding surcharges in the ATM industry in March 2005. Following this report, this committee was formed to investigate public concerns regarding the ATM industry, including (1) adequacy of disclosure to ATM customers regarding surcharges, (2) whether ATM providers should be required to provide free services in low-income areas and (3) whether to limit the level of surcharges. While the committee made numerous recommendations to Parliament regarding the ATM industry, including that ATMs should be subject to the Banking Code (a voluntary code of practice adopted by all financial institutions in the United Kingdom), the United Kingdom government did not accept the committee’s recommendations. Despite the rejection of the committee’s recommendations, the United Kingdom government sponsored an ATM task force to look at social exclusion in relation to ATM services. As a result of the task force’s findings, approximately 600 additional free-to-use ATMs (to be provided by multiple ATM providers) were required to be installed in low income areas throughout the United Kingdom. While this was less than a 2% increase in free-to-use ATMs throughout the United Kingdom, there is no certainty that other similar proposals will not be made and accepted in the future. If the legislature or another body with regulatory authority in the United Kingdom were to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in the United Kingdom would be negatively impacted. In Mexico, surcharging for off-premise ATMs was legalized in late 2003, but was not formally implemented until July 2005. In early October 2009, the Central Bank of Mexico adopted new rules regarding how ATM operators disclose fees to consumers. The objective of these rules was to provide more transparency to the consumer regarding the cost of a specific ATM transaction, rather than to limit the amount of fees charged to the consumer. Such rules, which became effective in May 2010, required ATM operators to elect between receiving interchange fees from card-issuing banks or surcharge fees from consumers. Cardtronics Mexico elected to assess a surcharge fee on the consumer rather than select the interchange fee-only option, and subsequently raised the level of its surcharge fees in order to recoup the interchange fees i t is no longer receiving. Since the new fee structure became effective, the number of cash withdrawal transactions conducted on Cardtronics Mexico’s ATMs has substantially declined on a same-store basis as compared to the same period in 2009, and, to date, there has been no indication that suggests transaction levels will recover to levels experienced prior to the new rules being in effect. At the current transaction levels, the additional surcharge fee amounts at a number of Cardtronics Mexico’s ATMs are not sufficient to offset the lost interchange revenues, which has resulted in lower revenues and profitability per ATM in that market. Additionally, in late October 2010, an additional rule went into effect in Mexico that prohibits a bank from assessing any ATM usage fee at its ATMs on any of its accountholders. While this rule does not affect Cardtronics Mexico’s ability to assess a surcharge fee to any cardholder who uses our ATMs (other than the accountholders of Bansi, our sponsoring financial institution in Mexico and equity partner in Cardtronics Mexico, whom we have never assessed any fees and which represent less than 1% of the total transactions conducted on Cardtronics Mexico’s ATMs), this new rule may further motivate cardholders to use their own bank’s ATMs in order to avoid any fees whatsoever and thus further reduce transactions at Cardtronics Mexico’s ATMs. As a result of the above developments, we have reduced our ATM deployments in Mexico in order to better measure the impact of the above rules on our ATM transaction levels and related profits. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to implement certain measures to mitigate the effects of these new rules in Mexico, our overall profitability in that market will decline and we may be required to record an impairment charge in future periods to write-down the carrying value of certain existing tangible and intangible assets associated with that operation. Furthermore, one of our primary merchant contracts in Mexico requires us to install a certain number of ATMs within a specified period of time in order to maintain exclusive rights to deploy ATMs at their retail locations. As a result of the negative effects of the recent regulatory changes to the Cardtronics Mexico business and our decision to reduce our ATM deployments, we could lose our exclusivity rights with this merchant. 26 Potential new currency designs may require modifications to our ATMs that could severely impact our cash flows. On November 26, 2006, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that the United States’ currencies (as currently designed) violate the Rehabilitation Act, a law that prohibits discrimination in government programs on the basis of disability, as the paper currencies issued by the United States are identical in size and color, regardless of denomination. As a consequence of this ruling, the United States Treasury conducted a study to determine the options to make United States paper currency accessible to the blind or visually impaired. It is our understanding that the BEP received that study on or about July 28, 2009, and together with the United States Treasury and the Federal Reserve, are reviewing the study. Upon the completion of that review, these institutions will publish their recommendations and the reafter seek public comments (in writing and at public forums) on those recommendations. Following the public comment period, a final recommendation will be made to the Secretary of the Treasury, who has authority to change the design and features of the currency notes utilized in the United States. While it is still uncertain at this time what impact, if any, this process will have on the ATM industry (including us), it is possible that any changes made to the design of the paper currency notes utilized in the United States could require us to incur additional costs, which could be substantial, to modify our ATMs in order to store and dispense such notes. Noncompliance with established EFT network rules and regulations could expose us to fines and penalties and could negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, new EFT network rules and regulations could require us to expend significant amounts of capital to remain in compliance with such rules and regulations. Our transactions are routed over various EFT networks to obtain authorization for cash disbursements and to provide account balances. These networks include Star, Pulse, NYCE, Cirrus, and Plus in the United States; LINK in the United Kingdom; and PROSA-RED in Mexico. EFT networks set the interchange fees that they charge to the financial institutions, as well as the amounts paid to us. Additionally, EFT networks, including MasterCard and Visa, establish rules and regulations that ATM providers, including ourselves, must comply with in order for member cardholders to use those ATMs. Failure to comply with such rules and regulations could expose us to penalties and/or fines, which could negatively impact our financial results. For example, in the United Kingdom, MasterCard and Visa require compliance with the EMV securit y standard. This standard provides for the security and processing of information contained on microchips imbedded in certain debit and credit cards, known as “smart cards.” While we completed our compliance efforts in this regard in 2008, we incurred $1.2 million in charges earlier that year due to transactions conducted on our machines with counterfeit cards prior to the completion of our EMV certification efforts. In January 2010, the Central Bank of Mexico decided that the ATMs in the country should be compliant with the EMV standard as well. The date of implementation of the EMV standard varies by the risk grade of the ATMs, with high risk ATMs implemented by September 1, 2011; medium risk ATMs by September 1, 2013; and low risk ATMs by September 1, 2014. As of December 31, 2010, Cardtronics Mexico had approximately 300 high risk ATMs, 300 medium risk ATMs, and 2,300 low risk ATMs. We expect the implementation of this standard will require approximately $0.2 million, $0 .2 million, and $1.2 million in capital expenditures during 2011, 2013 and 2014, respectively. In addition to the above, new rules or regulations enacted by the EFT networks could require us to expend significant sums of capital to ensure that our ATMs and financial services kiosks remain in compliance with such rules and regulations. For example, we expended significant sums of capital in recent years to meet the Triple-DES security standard mandated by MasterCard and Visa. Similar rules and regulations that may be enacted in the future could result in us having to make additional capital outlays in order to remain in compliance, some of which could be significant. The majority of the electronic debit networks over which our transactions are conducted require sponsorship by a bank. In each of the geographic segments in which we operate, bank sponsorship is required in order to process transactions over certain networks. In the United States, our largest geographic segment by revenues, bank sponsorship is required on the significant majority of our transactions and we currently rely on one primary sponsor bank for access to the applicable networks. In our United Kingdom segment, only international transactions require bank sponsorship. In Mexico, all ATM transactions require bank sponsorship, which is currently provided by our noncontrolling interest partner. If our current sponsor banks decide to no longer provide this service, or are no longer financially capable of providing this service as may be determined by certain networks, it may be difficult to find an adequate replacement at a cost similar to what we incur today, or potentially, we could incur a temporary service disruption for certain transactions in the event we lose or do not retain bank sponsorship. Developments in electronic financial transactions could materially reduce our transaction levels and revenues. Certain developments in the field of electronic financial transactions may reduce the need for services offered at our devices in the future. These developments could encompass technological changes and advancement in the areas of payments as well as physical self-service financial devices, governmental actions, customer preferences, as well as other factors. If transaction levels over our existing ATM locations were to decrease as a result of one or several of these developments, our business could be adversely affected. 27 The passing of anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose certain merchant accounts and reduce our revenues. Recent concerns by the U.S. federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, such regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs by individual merchants who load their own cash, thereby making their ATMs less profitable. Accordingly, some individual merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues. Our operating results have fluctuated historically and could continue to fluctuate in the future, which could affect our ability to maintain our current market position or expand. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions in the ATM and financial services industries; · changes in payment trends and offerings in the markets in which we operate; · competition from other companies providing the same or similar services that we offer; · the timing and magnitude of operating expenses, capital expenditures, and expenses related to the expansion of sales, marketing, and operations, including as a result of acquisitions, if any; · the timing and magnitude of any impairment charges that may materialize over time relating to our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets; · changes in the general level of interest rates in the markets in which we operate; · changes in regulatory requirements associated with the ATM and financial services industries; · changes in the mix of our current services; · changes in the financial condition and credit risk of our customers; and · changes in the financial condition and operational execution of our key vendors and service providers. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues in recent years, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and interest expense. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing automated consumer financial services industry and the geographical segments in which we operate. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of several of our senior executives would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified management, as well as technical and operational personnel as we grow. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel in the future, which could adversely impact our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 