Item 1A. Risk Factors — We rely on third parties to provide us with the cash we require to operate many of our ATMs. If these third parties were unable or unwilling to provide us with the necessary cash to operate our ATMs, we would need to locate alternative sources of cash to operate our ATMs or we would not be able to operate our business. Cash Replenishment. We contract with armored courier services to transport and transfer cash to our ATMs. We use leading armored couriers such as Brink’s Incorporated, Loomis, Fargo & Co., and Pendum in the United States; and Loomis, Group 4 Securicor, and Sunwin in the United Kingdom. Under these arrangements, the armored couriers pick up the cash in bulk and, using instructions received from our cash providers, prepare the cash for delivery to each ATM on the designated fill day. Following a predetermined schedule, the armored couriers visit each location on the designated fill day, load cash into each ATM by either adding additional cash into a cassette or by swapping out the remaining cash for a new fully loaded cassette, and then balance the machine and provide cash reporting to the applicable cash provider. In part because of service issues experienced during 2007 and 2008 related to one of our third-party armored cash providers in the United Kingdom, we recently implemented our own in-house armored courier operation in that market during the fourth quarter of 2008. While this operation, which is currently servicing approximately 250 of our ATMs, is not expected to result in significant cost savings to us, it is expected to reduce our reliance on third parties and to allow us greater flexibility in terms of servicing our ATMs. Our armored courier operation, which currently consists of 20 full-time employees, 6 armored vehicles, and a secure cash depot facility located outside of London, England, is expected to be servicing roughly 1,000 of our ATMs in the southern part of the United Kingdom by the end of 2009. In Mexico, we utilize a flexible replenishment schedule, which enables us to minimize our cash inventory by allowing the ATM to be replenished on an “as needed” basis and not on a fixed recurring schedule. Cash needs are forecasted in advance and the ATMs are closely monitored on a daily basis. Once a terminal is projected to need cash within a specified number of days, the cash is procured and the armored vendor is scheduled so that the terminal is loaded approximately one day prior to the day that it is expected to run out of cash. Our primary armored courier service providers in Mexico are Compañia Mexicana de Servicio de Traslado de Valores (Cometra) and Panamericano. Merchant Customers In each of our markets, we typically deploy our Company-owned ATMs under long-term contracts with major national and regional merchants, including convenience stores, supermarkets, drug stores, and other high-traffic locations. Our merchant-owned ATMs are typically deployed under arrangements with smaller independent merchants. 8 Table of Contents The terms of our merchant contracts vary as a result of negotiations at the time of execution. In the case of Company-owned ATMs, the contract terms vary, but typically include the following: • initial term of five to seven years; • exclusive deployment of ATMs at locations where we install an ATM; • our right to increase surcharge fees; • our right to remove ATMs at underperforming locations without having to pay a termination fee; • in the United States, our right to terminate or remove ATMs or renegotiate the fees payable to the merchant if surcharge fees are generally reduced or eliminated by law; and • provisions that make the merchant’s fee dependent on the number of ATM transactions. Our contracts under merchant-owned arrangements typically include similar terms, as well as the following additional terms: • in the United States, provisions prohibiting in-store check cashing by the merchant and, in the United States and United Kingdom, the operation of any other cash-back devices; • provisions imposing an obligation on the merchant to operate the ATMs at any time its stores are open for business; and • provisions, when possible, that require the assumption of our contract in the event a merchant sells its stores. 7-Eleven is the largest merchant customer in our portfolio, representing over 30% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. The underlying merchant agreement with 7-Eleven, which had an initial term of 10 years from the effective date of the acquisition, expires in July 2017. In addition to 7-Eleven, our next four largest merchant customers (based on revenues) during 2008 were CVS, Walgreens, Target, and Duane Reade, which collectively generated 14.5% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Seasonality In the United States and Mexico, our overall business is somewhat seasonal in nature with generally fewer transactions occurring in the first quarter of the fiscal year. We typically experience increased transaction levels during the holiday buying season at our ATMs located in shopping malls and lower volumes in the months following the holiday season. Similarly, we have seen increases in transaction volumes in the spring at our ATMs located near popular spring break destinations. Conversely, transaction volumes at our ATMs located in regions affected by strong winter weather patterns typically experience declines in volume during the winter months as a result of decreases in the amount of consumer traffic through such locations. These declines, however, have been offset somewhat by increases in the number of our ATMs located in shopping malls and other retail locations that benefit from increased consumer traffic during the holiday buying season. We expect these location-specific and regional fluctuations in transaction volumes to continue in the future. In the United Kingdom, seasonality in transaction patterns tends to be similar to the seasonal patterns in the general retail market. Generally, the highest transaction volumes occur on weekend days and, thus, monthly transaction volumes will fluctuate based on the number of weekend days in a given month. However, we, like other independent ATM operators, experience a drop in the number of transactions we process during the Christmas season due to consumers’ greater tendency to shop in the vicinity of free ATMs and the routine closure of some of our ATM sites over the Christmas break. We expect these location-specific and regional fluctuations in transaction volumes to continue in the future. 9 Table of Contents Competition We compete with financial institutions and other independent ATM companies for additional ATM placements, new merchant accounts, and acquisitions. Several of our competitors, namely national financial institutions, are larger and more established than we are. While these entities may have fewer ATMs than we do, they have greater financial and other resources than us. For example, our major domestic competitors include banks such as Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, and PNC Corp., as well as independent ATM operators such as ATM Express and Innovus. In the United Kingdom, we compete with several large non-bank ATM operators, including Cashzone (formerly Cardpoint, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Payzone), Notemachine, and Paypoint, as well as banks such as the Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, and Lloyds, among others. In Mexico, we compete primarily with national and regional financial institutions, including Banamex, Bancomer, and HSBC. Although the independent ATM market is still relatively undeveloped in Mexico, we have recently seen a number of small ATM operators initiate operations. These small ATM operators, which are typically known by the names of their sponsoring banks, include Banco Inbursa, Afirme, and Bajio. Despite the level of competition we face, many of our competitors have not historically had a singular focus on ATM management. As a result, we believe our primary focus on ATM management and related services gives us a significant competitive advantage. In addition, we believe the scale of our extensive ATM network and our focus on customer service also provide significant competitive advantages. Government and Industry Regulation United States Our principal business, ATM network ownership and operation, is not subject to significant government regulation, though we are subject to certain industry regulations. Furthermore, various aspects of our business are subject to state regulation. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to provide our products and services in such states, as well as the imposition of civil fines. Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”). The ADA currently prescribes provisions that ATMs be accessible to and independently usable by individuals who are visually-impaired. Additionally, the Department of Justice may adopt new accessibility guidelines under the ADA that will include provisions addressing ATMs and how to make them more accessible to the disabled. Under the proposed guidelines that have been published for comment but not yet adopted, ATM height and reach requirements would be shortened, keypads would be required to be laid out in the manner of telephone keypads, and ATMs would be required to possess speech capabilities, among other modifications. If adopted, these new guidelines would affect the manufacture of ATM equipment going forward and could require us to retrofit ATMs in our network as those ATMs are refurbished or updated for other purposes. Additionally, proposed Accessibility Guidelines under the ADA would require voice-enabling technology for newly-installed ATMs and for ATMs that are otherwise retrofitted or substantially modified. We are committed to ensuring that all of our ATMs comply with all applicable ADA regulations, and, although these new rules have not yet been adopted by the Department of Justice, we made substantially all of our Company-owned ATMs voice-enabled in conjunction with our Triple Data Encryption Standard (“Triple-DES”) security upgrade efforts in 2007. Rehabilitation Act. On November 26, 2006, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that the United States’ currencies (as currently designed) violate the Rehabilitation Act, a law that prohibits discrimination in government programs on the basis of disability, as the paper currencies issued by the U.S. are identical in size and color, regardless of denomination. Under the current ruling, the U.S. Treasury Department has been ordered to develop ways in which to differentiate paper currencies such that an individual who is visually-impaired would be able to distinguish between the different denominations. In response to the November 26, 2006 ruling, the Department of Justice filed an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit requesting that the decision be overturned on the grounds that varying the size of denominations could cause significant burdens on the vending machine industry and cost the Bureau of Engraving and Printing an initial investment of $178.0 million and up to $50.0 million in new printing plates. While it is still uncertain at this time what the outcome of the appeals process will be, in the event the current ruling is not overturned, participants in the ATM industry (including us) may be forced to incur costs to upgrade current machines’ hardware and software components (depending on the nature of the modifications proposed by the U.S. Treasury Department). 10 Table of Contents Encrypting Pin Pad and Triple-Data Encryption Standards. Data encryption makes ATMs more tamper-resistant. Two of the more recently developed advanced data encryption methods are commonly referred to as Encrypting Pin Pad (“EPP”) and Triple-DES. In 2005, we adopted a policy that any new ATMs we acquire from a manufacturer must be both EPP and Triple-DES compliant. As of December 31, 2008, all of our Company-owned and merchant-owned machines were Triple-DES compliant, and all of our Company-owned machines were EPP compliant. Surcharge Regulation. The imposition of surcharges is not currently subject to federal regulation. There have been, however, various state and local efforts to ban or limit surcharges, generally as a result of activities of consumer advocacy groups that believe that surcharges are unfair to cardholders. Generally, United States federal courts have ruled against these efforts. We are not aware of any existing surcharging bans or limits applicable to us in any of the jurisdictions in which we currently do business. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that surcharges will not be banned or limited in the cities and states where we operate. Such a ban or limit would have a material adverse effect on us and other ATM operators. EFT Network Regulations. EFT regional networks have adopted extensive regulations that are applicable to various aspects of our operations and the operations of other ATM network operators. The major source of EFT network regulations is the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, commonly known as Regulation E. The federal regulations promulgated under Regulation E establish the basic rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of consumers who use EFT services and of financial institutions that offer these services. The services covered include, among other services, ATM transactions. Generally, Regulation E requires us to provide notice of the fee to be charged the consumer, establish limits on the consumer’s liability for unauthorized use of his card, provide receipts to the consumer, and establish protest procedures for the consumer. We believe that we are in material compliance with these regulations and, if any deficiencies were discovered, that we would be able to correct them before they had a material adverse impact on our business. United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, MasterCard International has required compliance with an encryption standard called Europay, MasterCard, Visa, or “EMV.” The EMV standard provides for the security and processing of information contained on microchips imbedded in certain debit and credit cards, known as “smart cards.” We completed our remaining compliance efforts in the third quarter of 2008 and as of December 31, 2008, all of our ATMs in the United Kingdom were EMV compliant. Additionally, the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons heard evidence in 2005 from interested parties with respect to surcharges in the ATM industry. This committee was formed to investigate public concerns regarding the ATM industry, including (1) adequacy of disclosure to ATM customers regarding surcharges, (2) whether ATM providers should be required to provide free services in low-income areas, and (3) whether to limit the level of surcharges. While the committee made numerous recommendations to Parliament regarding the ATM industry, including that ATMs should be subject to the Banking Code (a voluntary code of practice adopted by all financial institutions in the United Kingdom), the United Kingdom government did not accept the committee’s recommendations. Despite its rejection of the committee’s recommendations, the U.K. government did sponsor an ATM task force to look at social exclusion in relation to ATM services. As a result of the task force’s findings, approximately 600 additional free-to-use ATMs (to be provided by multiple ATM deployers) were required to be installed in low income areas throughout the United Kingdom. While this is less than a 2% increase in free-to-use ATMs through the U.K., there is no certainty that other similar proposals will not be made and accepted in the future. Mexico The ATM industry in Mexico has been historically operated by financial institutions. The Central Bank of Mexico (“Banco de Mexico”) supervises and regulates ATM operations of both financial institutions and non-bank ATM deployers. Although Banco de Mexico’s regulations permit surcharge fees to be charged in ATM transactions, it has not issued specific regulations for the provision of ATM services. In addition, in order for a non-bank ATM deployer to provide ATM services in Mexico, the deployer must be affiliated with PROSA-RED or E-Global, which are credit card and debit card proprietary networks that transmit information and settle ATM transactions between their participants. As only financial institutions are allowed to be participants of PROSA-RED or E-Global, Cardtronics Mexico entered into a joint venture with Bansi, who is a member of PROSA-RED. As a financial institution, Bansi and all entities in which it participates, including Cardtronics Mexico, are regulated by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (“Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público”) and supervised by the Banking and Securities Commission (“Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores”). Additionally, Cardtronics Mexico is subject to the provisions of the Ley del Banco de Mexico (Law of Banco de Mexico), the Ley de Instituciones de Crédito (Mexican Banking Law), and the Ley para la Transparencia y Ordenamiento de los Servicios Financieros (Law for the Transparency and Organization of Financial Services). 11 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 430 employees, none which were represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on ATM transaction fees for substantially all of our revenues, and our revenues and profits would be reduced by a decline in the usage of our ATMs or a decline in the number of ATMs that we operate, whether as a result of current global economic conditions or otherwise. Transaction fees charged to cardholders and their financial institutions for transactions processed on our ATMs, including surcharge and interchange transaction fees, have historically accounted for most of our revenues. We expect that ATM transaction fees, including fees we receive through our bank branding and surcharge-free network offerings, will continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, our future operating results will depend on (i) the continued market acceptance of our services in our target markets, (ii) maintaining the level of transaction fees we receive, (iii) our ability to install, acquire, operate, and retain more ATMs, (iv) continued usage of our ATMs by cardholders, and (v) our ability to continue to expand our surcharge-free offerings. If alternative technologies to our ATM services are successfully developed and implemented, we will likely experience a decline in the usage of our ATMs. Surcharge fees, which are determined through negotiations between us and our merchant partners, could be reduced over time. Further, growth in surcharge-free ATM networks and widespread consumer bias toward these networks could adversely affect our revenues, even though we maintain our own surcharge-free offerings. Many of our ATMs are utilized by consumers that frequent the retail establishments in which our ATMs are located, including convenience stores, malls, grocery stores, and other large retailers. If there is a significant slowdown in consumer spending as a result of the current global economic downturn, and the number of consumers that frequent the retail establishments in which we operate our ATMs declines significantly, the number of transactions conducted on our ATMs, and the corresponding ATM transaction fees we earn, may also decline. United Kingdom. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our per-ATM operating revenues per month in the United Kingdom totaled £1,377, which represents a decline of approximately 10% when compared to the £1,532 earned per ATM per month during the previous year. While total withdrawal transactions per ATM per month increased nearly 8% in 2008 when compared to 2007, the number of pay-to-use withdrawal transactions per ATM per month declined while the number of free-to-use withdrawal transactions increased. While the net effect of this shift in withdrawal transactions on the total number of withdrawal transactions per ATM was negligible, the impact on transaction revenues per ATM was negative due to the fact that we earn more revenue per pay-to-use withdrawal transaction. We believe that this trend is due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, (i) service-related issues associated with one of our third-party armored cash providers that resulted in a higher percentage of downtime at our ATMs during 2008, (ii) the overall economic downturn experienced in the United Kingdom, (iii) the installation of over 300 new ATMs in that market during 2008, the transaction counts for which had not yet ramped up to mature levels, and (iv) the recent installation of more free-to-use ATMs in that market. These factors, coupled with additional regulatory changes, including requirements to place more prominent fee notifications on pay-to-use ATMs, appear to have caused a shift in consumer behavior, which has resulted in a decline in the number of pay-to-use withdrawal transactions being conducted on our ATMs in that market. We are unable to predict whether this negative transaction revenue trend will continue in the future, and if so, whether it will accelerate further based on the factors outlined above. If this trend continues or accelerates further, our future revenues and related profits will be negatively impacted. United States. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our per-ATM operating revenues per month in the United States totaled $1,133, which represents an increase of over 17.5% when compared to the $963 earned per ATM per month during the previous year. Such increase was due in large part to the acquisition of the 7-Eleven ATM business in July 2007. For the quarter ended December 31, 2008, the year-over-year increase totaled approximately 2%. Historically, we have been successful in maintaining or increasing the level of monthly operating revenues per ATM in the United States through a variety of means, including (i) increasing the number of higher transacting ATM locations in our portfolio through a combination of internal growth and third-party acquisitions, (ii) increasing the surcharge rates charged to consumers for selected ATMs in our network, and (iii) bringing on additional sources of revenue per ATM, primarily through our bank branding and surcharge-free network programs. However, because of the recent deterioration seen in the global economy, our per-ATM transaction revenues may decrease in the future. For example, as a result of the financial crisis affecting many of the nation’s large financial institutions, the decision-making process on new bank branding arrangements appears to have slowed considerably. As a result, any decline in the number of transactions conducted on our ATMs, coupled with little or no growth in the level of bank branding revenues earned per ATM, could result in lower domestic operating revenues per ATM per month in the future. 12 Table of Contents In addition to the above, we have experienced a decline in the average number of ATMs that we operate in the United States. This decline, which totaled 2.3% during the year ended December 31, 2008, is primarily due to attrition experienced in our merchant-owned ATM business, offset somewhat by new Company-owned ATM locations that were deployed during the year. The decline in ATMs on the merchant-owned side of the business totaled 8.9% during the year ended December 31, 2008, and was due primarily to certain network security upgrade requirements and competition from local and regional independent ATM service organizations. We cannot assure you that our ATM transaction revenues will not decline in the future, and in light of the recent deterioration in the global economy, it is possible our revenues will experience a decline. A decline in usage of our ATMs by ATM cardholders or in the levels of fees received by us in connection with this usage, or a decline in the number of ATMs that we operate, would have a negative impact on our revenues and would limit our future growth. In the United States, the proliferation of payment options other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, and stored-value cards, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. The United States has seen a shift in consumer payment trends since the late 1990’s, with more customers now opting for electronic forms of payment (e.g., credit cards and debit cards) for their in-store purchases over traditional paper-based forms of payment (e.g., cash and checks). Additionally, certain merchants are now offering free cash back at the point-of-sale for customers that utilize debit cards for their purchases, thus providing an additional incentive for consumers to use these cards. According to the Study of Consumer Payment Preferences for 2007/2008, as prepared by Hitachi Consulting and the Bank Administration Center, paper-based forms of payment declined from approximately 57% of all in-store payments made in 1999 to 37% in 2008, with such decline being split equally between traditional checks and cash. However, according to the 2007 Depository Institutions Payments Study, as prepared by Global Concepts and the Federal Reserve System, the total number of ATM withdrawals only declined 0.3% from 2004 to 2007. Regardless, the continued growth in electronic payment methods (most notably debit cards and stored-value cards) could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. Interchange fees, which comprise a substantial portion of our ATM transaction revenues, may be lowered at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which our ATM transactions are routed, thus reducing our future revenues. Interchange fees, which represented approximately 30% of our total ATM operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, are set by the various EFT networks through which our ATM transactions are routed. Accordingly, if these networks were to lower the interchange rates paid to us for ATM transactions routed through their networks, our future ATM transaction revenues and related profits would decline. The EFT networks may decide to lower the interchange rates currently paid to us for transactions conducted on our ATMs, which would in turn reduce the amount of revenues we earn per transaction. The recent deterioration experienced in global credit markets could have a negative impact on financial institutions that we conduct business with. We have a significant number of customer and vendor relationships with financial institutions in all of our key markets, including relationships in which those financial institutions pay us for the right to place their brands on our ATMs. Additionally, we rely on a small number of financial institution partners to provide us with the cash that we maintain in our Company-owned ATMs. The continued turmoil seen in the global credit markets may have a negative impact on those financial institutions and our relationships with them. In particular, if the liquidity positions of the financial institutions with which we conduct business deteriorate significantly, these institutions may be unable to perform under their existing agreements with us. If these defaults were to occur, we may not be successful in our efforts to identify new branding partners, and the underlying economics of any new branding arrangements may not be consistent with our current branding arrangements. Furthermore, if our existing bank branding partners are acquired by other institutions with assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (“FDIC”), or placed into receivership by the FDIC, it is possible that our branding arrangements may be rejected in part or in their entirety. If these situations were to occur, and we were unsuccessful in our efforts to re-brand the affected locations, our future financial results would be negatively impacted. Additionally, it appears that the decision-making process on new bank branding arrangements has slowed considerably with potential branding partners, which we believe is directly attributable to the current economic and financial crisis facing financial institutions around the world. If this trend continues, it will have an adverse impact on our ability to enter into new bank branding arrangements. 13 Table of Contents The consolidations currently occurring within the banking industry may impact our branding relationships as existing branding customers are acquired by other, more stable financial institutions, some if which may not be existing branding customers. An unprecedented amount of consolidation is currently unfolding within the United States banking industry. For example, Washington Mutual, which currently has over 950 ATMs branded with us, was recently acquired by JPMorgan Chase, which is also an existing branding customer of ours. Additionally, Wachovia, which currently has 15 high-transaction ATMs branded with us, was recently acquired by Wells Fargo, a bank that was not an existing branding customer of ours. Additionally, Sovereign Bank, which currently has over 1,150 ATMs branded with us, is in the process of being acquired by Banco Santander, one of the largest banks in Europe. Although we currently believe that our branding contracts will remain fully enforceable in light of these transactions, we cannot assure you that these contracts will remain unaffected by these consolidation trends. We rely on third parties to provide us with the cash we require to operate many of our ATMs. If these third parties were unable or unwilling to provide us with the necessary cash to operate our ATMs, we would need to locate alternative sources of cash to operate our ATMs or we would not be able to operate our business. In the United States, we rely on agreements with Bank of America, PDNB, and Wells Fargo to provide us with the cash that we use in approximately 18,000 of our domestic ATMs where cash is not provided by the merchant (“vault cash.”) In the United Kingdom, we rely on a vault cash agreement with ALCB to provide us with the cash that we use in over 2,300 of our United Kingdom ATMs where cash is not provided by the merchant. Finally, Bansi is our sole vault cash provider in Mexico and provides us with the cash that we use in over 1,800 of our Mexico ATMs. As of December 31, 2008, the balance of vault cash held in our United States, United Kingdom, and Mexico ATMs was approximately $835.4 million, $145.5 million, and $22.9 million, respectively. Under our vault cash agreements, we pay a vault cash rental fee based on the total amount of vault cash that we are using at any given time. At all times during this process, legal and equitable title to the cash is held by the cash providers, and we have no access or right to the cash. Each provider has the right to demand the return of all or any portion of its cash at any time upon the occurrence of certain events beyond our control, including certain bankruptcy events of us or our subsidiaries, or a breach of the terms of our cash provider agreements. Our existing vault cash agreement with Bank of America currently extends through October 2010 and Bank of America is required to provide us with 360 days prior written notice of its intent not to renew. If such notice is not received, then the contract will automatically renew for an additional one-year period. Our existing agreement with Wells Fargo currently extends through July 2009 and Wells Fargo is required to provide us with 180 days prior written notice of its intent not to renew. If such notice is not received, then the contract automatically renews for an additional one-year period. Although we did not receive notice from Wells Fargo of its intent not to renew 180 days prior to the current expiration date, the contract contains a provision that allows Wells Fargo to modify the pricing terms contained within the agreement and, in the event both parties do not agree to the pricing modifications, then the agreement will not renew beyond such expiration date. If that were to occur, we would need to locate alternative sources of cash in order to operate those ATMs currently serviced by Wells Fargo. In the event we are required to do so, or if our current contract with Wells Fargo is renewed, the new pricing terms and conditions could potentially be less favorable to us, which would negatively impact our results of operations. With respect to our United Kingdom operations, our current agreement with ALCB does not expire until September 2011. However, the agreement contains certain provisions, which, if triggered, may allow ALCB to terminate its agreement with us and demand the return of its cash upon 180 days prior written notice. Finally, we recently extended our agreement in Mexico with Bansi, which now expires in March 2010. If our vault cash providers were to demand return of their cash or terminate their arrangements with us and remove their cash from our ATMs, or if they were to fail to provide us with cash as and when we need it for our ATM operations, our ability to operate these ATMs would be jeopardized, and we would need to locate alternative sources of cash in order to operate these ATMs. In the event this was to happen, the terms and conditions of the new or renewed agreements could potentially be less favorable to us, which would negatively impact our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In 2008, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $50.0 million. If we experience additional impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, we will be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and are required to perform periodic assessments for any possible impairment for accounting purposes. As of December 31, 2008, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $272.1 million, or 56.4% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate the recoverability and the amortization period of our intangible assets under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). Some of the factors that we consider to be important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include the performance of the related assets relative to the expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. These factors, assumptions, and any changes in them could result in an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. In the event we determine our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements, which would negatively impact our results of operations and that impact could be material. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $50.0 million goodwill impairment charge and $0.4 million of impairment charges associated with intangibles related to our acquired merchant contracts/relationships. Other impairment charges in the future may also adversely affect our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $347.2 million, which represents 105.8% of our total capitalization of $328.2 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow in the future to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, and adverse changes in government regulation; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs, or other purposes. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. The terms of our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes include a number of covenants that, among other items, restrict or limit our ability to: • sell or transfer property or assets; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • merge into or consolidate with any third party; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create certain liens; • make investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • issue or sell preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we are required by our credit agreement to maintain specified financial ratios and limit the amount of capital expenditures incurred in any given 12-month period. While we currently have the ability to borrow the full amount available under our credit agreement, as a result of these ratios and limits, we may be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business in the future and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance our future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. A failure to comply with the covenants or financial ratios could result in an event of default. In the event of a default under our credit agreement, the lenders could exercise a number of remedies, some of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the senior subordinated notes. An acceleration of indebtedness under our credit agreement would also likely result in an event of default under the terms of any other financing arrangement we have outstanding at the time. If any or all of our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay our indebtedness in full. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings under our bank credit facility when due, the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral securing our indebtedness. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Facilities. Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market if the closing bid price for our common stock is not maintained at $1.00 per share or higher during any 30 consecutive business days. NASDAQ imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards as well as minimum bid and public float requirements. The price of our common stock must trade at or above $1.00 to comply with NASDAQ’s minimum bid requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. In recent months, our common stock has traded below $1.00 per share at closing for brief periods of time. If our common stock were to trade during any 30 consecutive business days below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement, NASDAQ would send us a deficiency notice advising us that we have 180 calendar days to regain compliance. In order to regain compliance, our common stock would need to maintain a closing $1.00 bid price for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. NASDAQ has suspended its enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and announced that it will not take any action to delist any security traded on The NASDAQ Global Market that fails to comply with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement between October 16, 2008 and April 20, 2009. Consequently, for as long as NASDAQ’s rule suspension remains in effect, NASDAQ will not delist our stock if the closing bid price for our common stock falls below $1.00 per share during the rule suspension period. If the closing bid price of our common stock fails to meet NASDAQ’s minimum closing bid price requirement for a period of 30 consecutive business days at any time beginning on or after April 20, 2009, or on a later date to which NASDAQ may extend its suspension of this requirement, or if we otherwise fail to meet all other applicable requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock if we fail to regain compliance within a proscribed period. Any such delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in four of the past five years and incurred a net loss of $70.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $100.5 million. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve profitability in the future. If we achieve profitability, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from ATMs placed with a small number of merchants. If one or more of our top merchants were to cease doing business with us, or to substantially reduce its dealings with us, our revenues could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived 44.7% of our total revenues from ATMs placed at the locations of our five largest merchants. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our top five merchants (based on our total revenues) were 7-Eleven, CVS, Walgreens, Target, and Duane Reade. 7-Eleven, which is the single largest merchant customer in our portfolio, comprised over 30% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Accordingly, a significant percentage of our future revenues and operating income will be dependent upon the successful continuation of our relationship with 7-Eleven and these other four merchants. 16 Table of Contents The loss of any of our largest merchants or a decision by any one of them to reduce the number of our ATMs placed in their locations would result in a decline in our revenues. Furthermore, if their financial condition were to deteriorate in the future and, as a result, one of more of these merchants was required to close a significant number of their domestic store locations, our revenues would be significantly impacted. These merchants may elect not to renew their contracts when they expire. The contracts we have with our top five merchants have expiration dates of July 20, 2017; February 18, 2012; December 31, 2013; January 31, 2012; and December 31, 2014, respectively. Even if such contracts are renewed, the renewal terms may be less favorable to us than the current contracts. If any of our five largest merchants enters bankruptcy proceedings and rejects its contract with us, fails to renew its contract upon expiration, or if the renewal terms with any of them are less favorable to us than under our current contracts, it could result in a decline in our revenues and gross profits. A substantial portion of our revenues and operating profits are generated by our merchant relationship with 7- Eleven. Accordingly, if 7-Eleven’s financial condition deteriorates in the future and it is required to close some or all of its store locations, or if our ATM placement agreement with 7-Eleven expires or is terminated, our future financial results would be significantly impaired. 7-Eleven is the single largest merchant customer in our portfolio, representing approximately 30% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Accordingly, a significant percentage of our future revenues and operating income will be dependent upon the successful continuation of our relationship with 7-Eleven. If 7- Eleven’s financial condition were to deteriorate in the future and, as a result, it was required to close a significant number of its domestic store locations, our financial results would be significantly impacted. Additionally, while the underlying ATM placement agreement with 7-Eleven has an initial term of 10 years, we may not be successful in renewing such agreement with 7-Eleven upon the end of that initial term, or such renewal may occur with terms and conditions that are not as favorable to us as those contained in the current agreement. Furthermore, the ATM placement agreement executed with 7-Eleven contains certain terms and conditions that, if we fail to meet such terms and conditions, gives 7-Eleven the right to terminate the placement agreement or our exclusive right to provide certain services. We rely on EFT network providers, transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, we could suffer a temporary loss of transaction revenues or the permanent loss of any merchant contract affected by such disruption. We rely on EFT network providers and have agreements with transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers and have more than one such provider in each of these key areas. These providers enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement, and ATM cash management and maintenance services to the merchants we serve. Typically, these agreements are for periods of up to two or three years each. If we improperly manage the renewal or replacement of any expiring vendor contract, or if our multiple providers in any one key area failed to provide the services for which we have contracted and disruption of service to our merchants occurs, our relationship with those merchants could suffer. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2007 and the full year of 2008, our results of operations were negatively impacted by a higher percentage of downtime experienced by our ATMs in the United Kingdom as a result of certain third-party service-related issues. If such disruption of service continues, our relationships with the affected merchants could be materially negatively impacted. Furthermore, any disruptions in service in any of our markets, whether caused by us or by third party providers, may result in a loss of revenues under certain of our contractual arrangements that contain minimum service-level requirements. If we, our transaction processors, our EFT networks or other service providers experience system failures, the ATM products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our in-house transaction processing platform, third-party transaction processors, telecommunications network systems, and other service providers. Accordingly, any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenues. Additionally, if any such interruption is caused by us, especially in those situations in which we serve as the primary transaction processor, such interruption could result in the loss of the affected merchants or damage our relationships with such merchants. Our systems and operations and those of our transaction processors and our EFT network and other service providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. 17 Table of Contents The inaccurate settlement of funds between the various parties to our ATM transactions could harm our business and our relationships with our merchants. As of December 31, 2008, we had transitioned approximately 26,000 of our Company- and merchant-owned ATMs from third-party processors to our own EFT transaction processing platform. If not performed properly, the processing of transactions conducted on our ATMs could result in the inaccurate settlement of funds between the various parties to those transactions and expose us to increased liability. The armored transport business exposes us to additional risks beyond those currently experienced by us in the ownership and operation of ATMs. To the extent we are unable to resolve the issues we have experienced with an armored courier in the United Kingdom or experience similar issues in other markets, our operating results could be adversely affected. During 2008, we implemented our own in-house armored courier operation in the United Kingdom. We are currently providing armored services to over 250 of our ATMs in that market and expect to transition approximately 750 additional locations over to our operation during 2009. The armored transport business exposes us to significant risks, including the potential for cash-in-transit losses, as well as claims for personal injury, wrongful death, worker’s compensation, punitive damages, and general liability. While we will seek to maintain appropriate levels of insurance to adequately protect us from these risks, there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant future claims or adverse publicity related thereto. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover potential liabilities or that insurance coverage will remain available at costs that are acceptable to us. The availability of quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in our ability to successfully operate this aspect of our operations. A successful claim brought against us for which coverage is denied or that is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If not done properly, the transitioning of armored transport services from third-party service providers to our own internal operations, whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, could lead to service interruptions, which would harm our business and our relationships with our merchants. We have no prior experience in providing armored transport services to the ATM industry. Because this is a new business for us, there is an increased risk that our transition efforts will not be successful, thus resulting in service interruptions for our merchants. Furthermore, if not performed properly, the provisioning of armored transport services to our ATMs could result in the ATMs either running out of cash, thereby resulting in lost transactions and revenues, or having excess cash, thereby unnecessarily increasing our operating costs. Furthermore, if certain of these issues were to occur, it could damage our relationships with the affected merchants, thus negatively impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches could harm our business by compromising customer information and disrupting our ATM transaction processing services, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. As part of our ATM transaction processing services, we electronically process and transmit sensitive cardholder information utilizing our ATMs. In recent years, companies that process and transmit this information have been specifically and increasingly targeted by sophisticated criminal organizations in an effort to obtain the information and utilize it for fraudulent transactions. Unauthorized access to our computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could result in the theft or publication of the information or the deletion or modification of sensitive records, and could cause interruptions in our operations. While the security risks outlined above are mitigated by the use of encryption and other techniques, any inability to prevent security breaches could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. Computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our ATM transaction processing services, causing noncompliance with network rules and damaging our relationships with our merchant customers. Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, thus disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Although we utilize several preventative and detective security controls in our network, any inability to prevent computer viruses could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and cause us to be in non-compliance with applicable network rules and regulations. 18 Table of Contents Operational failures in our ATM transaction processing facilities could harm our business and our relationships with our merchant customers. An operational failure in our ATM transaction processing facilities could harm our business and damage our relationships with our merchant customers. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ATM processing services could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and could cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. We have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or react to such disruptions. However, a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours (i.e., where our backup systems are not able to recover) could result in data loss or a reduction in revenues as our ATMs would be unable to process transactions. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential merchant customers to choose alternative ATM service providers. Errors or omissions in the settlement of merchant funds could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. We are responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for our merchant customers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. This process relies on accurate and authorized maintenance of electronic records. Although we have certain controls in place to help ensure the safety and accuracy of our records, errors or unauthorized changes to these records could result in the erroneous or fraudulent movement of funds, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. Changes in interest rates could increase our operating costs by increasing interest expense under our credit facilities and our vault cash rental costs. Interest on our outstanding indebtedness under our revolving and swing line credit facilities is based on floating interest rates, and our vault cash rental expense is based on market interest rates. As a result, our interest expense and cash management costs are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Vault cash is the cash we use in our machines in cases where cash is not provided by the merchant. We pay rental fees on the average amount of vault cash outstanding in our ATMs under floating rate formulas based on the LIBOR to Bank of America and PDNB in the United States and ALCB in the United Kingdom, and based on the federal funds effective rate to Wells Fargo in the United States. Additionally, in Mexico, we pay a monthly rental fee to our vault cash provider under a formula based on the Mexican Interbank Rate. Although we currently hedge a significant portion of our vault cash interest rate risk related to our domestic operations through December 31, 2012, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements for similar amounts in the future. Furthermore, we have not currently entered into any derivative financial instruments to hedge our variable interest rate exposure in the United Kingdom or Mexico. Any significant future increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow by increasing our operating costs and expenses. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Disclosure about Market Risk; Interest Rate Risk. We maintain a significant amount of cash within our Company-owned ATMs, which is subject to potential loss due to theft or other events, including natural disasters. As of December 31, 2008, there was approximately $1.0 billion in vault cash held in our domestic and international ATMs. Although legal and equitable title to such cash is held by the cash providers, any loss of such cash from our ATMs through theft or other means is typically our responsibility. While we maintain insurance to cover a significant portion of any losses that may be sustained by us as a result of such events, we are still required to fund a portion of such losses through the payment of the related deductible amounts under our insurance policies. Furthermore, any increase in the frequency and/or amounts of such thefts and losses could negatively impact our operating results as a result of higher deductible payments and increased insurance premiums. Additionally, any damage sustained to our merchant customers’ store locations in connection with any ATM-related thefts, if extensive and frequent enough in nature, could negatively impact our relationships with such merchants and impair our ability to deploy additional ATMs in those locations (or new locations) with those merchants in the future. Finally, impacted merchants may request that we permanently remove ATMs from store locations that have suffered damage as a result of any ATM-related thefts, thus negatively impacting our financial results. 19 Table of Contents The ATM industry is highly competitive and such competition may increase, which may adversely affect our profit margins. The ATM business is and can be expected to remain highly competitive. While our principal competition comes from national and regional financial institutions, we also compete with other independent ATM companies in the United States and the United Kingdom. Several of our competitors, namely national financial institutions, are larger, more established, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our competitors could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our ATMs, cause us to reduce the surcharge revenue generated by transactions at our ATMs, or cause us to pay higher merchant fees, thereby reducing our profits. In addition to our current competitors, additional competitors may enter the market. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these current and future competitors. Increased competition could result in transaction fee reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. In the United Kingdom, we face competition from several companies with operations larger than our own. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than our United Kingdom subsidiary. The election of our merchant customers to not participate in our surcharge-free network offerings could impact the networks’ effectiveness, which would negatively impact our financial results. Financial institutions that are members of our Allpoint and MasterCard surcharge-free networks pay a fee in exchange for allowing their cardholders to use selected Cardtronics owned and/or managed ATMs on a surcharge-free basis. The success of these networks is dependent upon the participation by our merchant customers in such networks. In the event a significant number of our merchants elect not to participate in such networks, the benefits and effectiveness of the networks would be diminished, thus potentially causing some of the participating financial institutions to not renew their agreements with us, and thereby negatively impacting our financial results. We may be unable to integrate our future acquisitions in an efficient manner and inefficiencies would increase our cost of operations and reduce our profitability. We have been an active business acquirer both in the United States and internationally, and may continue to be active in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses involves a number of risks. The core risks are in the areas of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology and other assets so as to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. In addition, acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows. Any shortfall in anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows could require us to write down the carrying value of the intangible assets associated with any acquired company, which would adversely affect our reported earnings. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $50.0 million impairment charge to write down the value of the goodwill associated with our investment in Bank Machine. Since April 2001, we have acquired 14 ATM networks and one surcharge-free ATM network. Prior to our E*TRADE Access acquisition in June 2004, we had acquired only the assets of deployed ATM networks, rather than businesses and their related infrastructure. We currently anticipate that our future acquisitions will likely reflect a mix of asset acquisitions and acquisitions of businesses, with each acquisition having its own set of unique characteristics. To the extent that we elect to acquire an existing company or the operations, technology, and personnel of another ATM provider, we may assume some or all of the liabilities associated with the acquired company and face new and added challenges integrating such acquisition into our operations. Any inability on our part to effectively manage our past or future growth could limit our ability to successfully grow the revenue and profitability of our business. 20 Table of Contents Our international operations involve special risks and may not be successful, which would result in a reduction of our gross profits. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 14.0% of our ATMs were located in the United Kingdom and Mexico. Those ATMs contributed 11.2% of our gross profits exclusive of depreciation, accretion, and amortization for the year ended December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to expand in the United Kingdom and Mexico and potentially into other countries as opportunities arise. However, our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: • exposure to currency fluctuations, including the risk that our future reported operating results could be negatively impacted by unfavorable movements in the functional currencies of our international operations relative to the United States dollar, which represents our consolidated reporting currency; • difficulties in complying with the different laws and regulations in each country and jurisdiction in which we operate, including unique labor and reporting laws; • unexpected changes in laws, regulations, and policies of foreign governments or other regulatory bodies, including changes that could potentially disallow surcharging or that could result in a reduction in the amount of interchange fees received per transaction; • unanticipated political and social instability that may be experienced in developing countries; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including hiring and retaining skilled workers in those countries in which we operate; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of foreign earnings. Any of these factors could reduce the profitability and revenues derived from our international operations and international expansion. For example, during the latter half of 2008, we incurred reduced revenues from the United States dollar strengthening relative to the British pound and Mexican peso. Additionally, the recent political and social instability in Mexico resulting from an increase in drug-related violence could negatively impact the level of transactions incurred on our existing ATMs in that market, as well as our ability to successfully grow our business there. Our proposed expansion efforts into new international markets involve unique risks and may not be successful. We plan to expand our operations internationally with a focus on high growth emerging markets, such as those in Central and Eastern Europe, Central and South America, and Asia-Pacific. Because the off-premise ATM industry is relatively undeveloped in these emerging markets, we may not be successful in these expansion efforts. In particular, many of these markets do not currently employ or support an off-premise ATM surcharging model, meaning that we would have to rely on interchange fees as our primary source of revenues. While we have had some success in deploying non-surcharging ATMs in selected markets, such a model requires significant transaction volumes to make it economically feasible to purchase and deploy ATMs. Furthermore, most of the ATMs in these markets are owned and operated by financial institutions, thus increasing the risk that cardholders would be unwilling to utilize an off-premise ATM with an unfamiliar brand. Finally, the regulatory environments in many of these markets are evolving and unpredictable, thus increasing the risk that a particular deployment model chosen at inception may not be economically viable in the future. We operate in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. If we are subject to new legislation regarding the operation of our ATMs, we could be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with that legislation, which may reduce our net income and our profit margins. With its initial roots in the banking industry, the U.S. ATM industry is regulated by the rules and regulations of the federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which establishes the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of participants in EFT systems. The vast majority of states have few, if any, licensing requirements. However, legislation related to the U.S. ATM industry is periodically proposed at the state and local level. To date, no such legislation has been enacted that materially adversely affects our business. In the United Kingdom, the ATM industry is largely self-regulating. Most ATMs in the United Kingdom are part of the LINK network and must operate under the network rules set forth by LINK, including complying with rules regarding required signage and screen messages. Additionally, legislation is proposed from time-to-time at the national level, though nothing to date has been enacted that materially affects our business. 21 Table of Contents Finally, the ATM industry in Mexico has been historically operated by financial institutions. Banco de Mexico supervises and regulates ATM operations of both financial institutions and non-bank ATM deployers. Although, Banco de Mexico’s regulations permit surcharge fees to be charged in ATM transactions, it has not issued specific regulations for the provision of ATM services. In addition, in order for a non-bank ATM deployer to provide ATM services in Mexico, the deployer must be affiliated with PROSA-RED or E-Global, which are credit card and debit card proprietary networks that transmit information and settle ATM transactions between their participants. As only financial institutions are allowed to be participants of PROSA-RED or E-Global, Cardtronics Mexico entered into a joint venture with Bansi, who is a member of PROSA-RED. As a financial institution, Bansi and all entities in which it participates, including Cardtronics Mexico, are regulated by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (“Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público”) and supervised by the Banking and Securities Commission (“Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores”). Additionally, Cardtronics Mexico is subject to the provisions of the Ley del Banco de Mexico (Law of Banco de Mexico), the Ley de Instituciones de Crédito (Mexican Banking Law), and the Ley para la Transparencia y Ordenamiento de los Servicios Financieros (Law for the Transparency and Organization of Financial Services). We will continue to monitor all such legislation and attempt, to the extent possible, to prevent the passage of such laws that we believe are needlessly burdensome or unnecessary. If regulatory legislation is passed in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we could be required to make substantial expenditures which would reduce our net income. The passing of legislation banning or limiting surcharge fees would severely impact our revenues. Despite the nationwide acceptance of surcharge fees at ATMs in the United States since their introduction in 1996, consumer activists have from time to time attempted to impose local bans or limits on surcharge fees. Even in the few instances where these efforts have passed the local governing body (such as with an ordinance adopted by the city of Santa Monica, California), federal courts have overturned these local laws on federal preemption grounds. However, those efforts may resurface and, should the federal courts abandon their adherence to the federal preemption doctrine, those efforts could receive more favorable consideration than in the past. Any successful legislation banning or limiting surcharge fees could result in a substantial loss of revenues and significantly curtail our ability to continue our operations as currently configured. In the United Kingdom, the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons published a report regarding surcharges in the ATM industry in March 2005. This committee was formed to investigate public concerns regarding the ATM industry, including (1) adequacy of disclosure to ATM customers regarding surcharges, (2) whether ATM providers should be required to provide free services in low-income areas and (3) whether to limit the level of surcharges. While the committee made numerous recommendations to Parliament regarding the ATM industry, including that ATMs should be subject to the Banking Code (a voluntary code of practice adopted by all financial institutions in the United Kingdom), the United Kingdom government did not accept the committee’s recommendations. Despite the rejection of the committee’s recommendations, the United Kingdom government did sponsor an ATM task force to look at social exclusion in relation to ATM services. As a result of the task force’s findings, approximately 600 additional free-to-use ATMs (to be provided by multiple ATM providers) were required to be installed in low income areas throughout the United Kingdom While this is less than a 2% increase in free-to-use ATMs throughout the United Kingdom, there is no certainty that other similar proposals will not be made and accepted in the future. If the legislature or another body with regulatory authority in the United Kingdom were to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in the United Kingdom would be negatively impacted. In Mexico, surcharging for off-premise ATMs was legalized in late 2003, but was not formally implemented until July 2005. As such, the charging of fees to consumers to utilize off-premise ATMs is a relatively new event in Mexico. Accordingly, it is too soon to predict whether public concerns over surcharging will surface in Mexico. However, if such concerns were to be raised, and if the applicable legislative or regulatory bodies in Mexico decided to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in Mexico would be negatively impacted. The passing of legislation requiring modifications to be made to ATMs could severely impact our cash flows. Under a current ruling of the U.S. District Court, it was determined that the United States’ currencies (as currently designed) violate the Rehabilitation Act, as the paper currencies issued by the U.S. are identical in size and color, regardless of denomination. Under the ruling, the U.S. Treasury Department has been ordered to develop ways in which to differentiate paper currency such that an individual who is visually-impaired would be able to distinguish between the different denominations. While it is still uncertain at this time what the outcome of the appeals process will be, in the event the current ruling is not overturned, participants in the ATM industry (including us) could be forced to incur costs to upgrade current machines’ hardware and software components (depending on the nature of the modifications proposed by the U.S. Treasury Department). 22 Table of Contents The passing of anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose certain merchant accounts and reduce our revenues. Recent concerns by the U.S. federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, such regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs by individual merchants who load their own cash, thereby making their ATMs less profitable. Accordingly, some individual merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the SEC rules with respect thereto, require management of public companies to assess the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting annually and to include in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K a management report on that assessment. To that end, our management assessment as of December 31, 2008 has been reflected in Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this 2008 Form 10-K. Additionally, we are required to include an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Under Section 404 and the SEC’s rules, a company cannot find that its internal control over financial reporting is effective if any “material weaknesses” exist in its controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. During 2008, we took appropriate actions to remediate the identified material weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Additional information regarding our remedial actions and our conclusions with respect thereto can be found in Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this 2008 Form 10-K. As a result, we believe that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. Despite the above, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in future periods, as changing conditions in our operating environment and/or inadequate responses on our part to those changing conditions could lead to material weakness disclosures in future periods. Any failure in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, if it results in misstatements in our financial statements, could have a material effect on our financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, and thus could negatively impact investor perceptions. 23 Table of Contents Our operating results have fluctuated historically and could continue to fluctuate in the future, which could affect our ability to maintain our current market position or expand. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions in the ATM and financial services industries; • changes in payment trends and offerings in the markets in which we operate; • competition from other companies providing the same or similar services that we offer; • the timing and magnitude of operating expenses, capital expenditures, and expenses related to the expansion of sales, marketing, and operations, including as a result of acquisitions, if any; • the timing and magnitude of any impairment charges that may materialize over time relating to our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets; • changes in the general level of interest rates in the markets in which we operate; • changes in regulatory requirements associated with the ATM and financial services industries; • changes in the mix of our current services; and • changes in the financial condition and credit risk of our customers. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues in recent quarters, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and interest expense. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 