ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks associated with our industry The proliferation of payment options other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, stored-value cards, and mobile payments options could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. The U.S. and other developed markets have seen a shift in consumer payment trends since the late 1990’s, with more customers now opting for electronic forms of payment (e.g., credit cards and debit cards) for their in-store purchases over traditional paper-based forms of payment (e.g., cash and checks). Additionally, some merchants offer free cash back at the POS for customers that utilize debit cards for their purchases, thus providing an additional incentive for consumers to use these cards. According to the Nilson Report issued in December 2012, the percentage of cash transaction counts in the U.S. declined from approximately 36% of all payment transactions in 2006 to approximately 31% in 2011, with declines also seen in check usage as credit, debit and stored-value card transactions increased. However, in terms of absolute dollar value, the volume of cash used in payment transactions actually increased from $1.5 trillion in 2006 to $1.6 trillion in 2011. While we saw an increase in the number of cash withdrawal transactions conducted on our domestic ATMs over the past several years, in part due to the proliferation of stored-value cards, thus implying continued demand for convenient and reliable access to cash in the past few years, we have seen a decline in our transaction growth rate in recent periods. Additionally, the continued growth in electronic payment methods could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and ultimately, a decline in the usage of our ATMs. New payment technology and adoption of such technology such as Square® mobile payment technology, virtual currencies such as Bitcoin, or other new payment method preferences by consumers could reduce the general population’s need or demand for cash and negatively impact our transaction volumes in the future. Interchange fees, which comprise a substantial portion of our transaction revenues, may be lowered in some cases at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which our transactions are routed, or through potential regulatory changes, thus reducing our future revenues. Interchange fees, which represented approximately 33% of our total ATM operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, are in some cases set by the various EFT networks through which transactions conducted on our devices are routed, and typically vary from one network to the next. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 6% of our total ATM operating revenues were subject to pricing changes by U.S. networks over which we currently have very limited ability to influence. Approximately 12% of our total ATM operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013 were derived from interchange revenues from our U.K. operation, where interchange rates are set by the major interbank network in that market, LINK, based on an annual cost-based study performed by an independent third-party organization. The remainder of reported interchange revenue reflects transaction-based revenues whereby we have contractually agreed to the rate with a financial institution or network. Accordingly, if some of the networks through which our ATM transactions are routed were to reduce the interchange rates paid to us or increase their transaction fees charged to us for routing transactions across their network, our future transaction revenues could decline. During the second quarter of 2012, a global network reduced the net interchange rates it pays to domestic ATM deployers for ATM transactions routed across its debit network through a combination of reducing the transaction rates charged to financial institutions and higher per transaction fees charged by the network to ATM operators. In addition to the impact of the net interchange rate decrease, we saw certain financial institutions migrate their volume away from other networks to take advantage of the lower pricing offered by this network and other lower-interchange networks, resulting in lower net interchange rates per transaction to us. Additionally, some consumer groups in the U.S. have expressed concern that consumers using an ATM may not be aware that in addition to paying the surcharge fee that is disclosed to them at the ATM, their financial institution may also assess an additional fee to offset any interchange fee assessed to the financial institution by the EFT networks with regard to that consumer’s transaction. While there are currently no pending legislative actions calling for limits on the amount of interchange fees that can be charged by the EFT networks to financial institutions for ATM transactions or the amount of fees that financial institutions can charge to their customers to offset their interchange expense, there can be no assurance that such legislative actions will not occur in the future. Any potential future network or legislative actions that affect the amount of interchange fees that can be assessed on a transaction may adversely affect our revenues. Finally, interchange rates in the U.K., most of which are set by LINK, were reduced effective January 1, 2013 compared to 2012 rates. LINK sets the interchange rates in the U.K. annually by using a cost-based methodology that incorporates average operating costs, interest rates, and cash costs from two years back (i.e., average operating costs, interest rates, and other costs from 2011 are considered for determining the 2013 interchange rate). Since average operating costs, interest rates, and cash costs were lower in 2012 than in 2011, LINK reduced the interchange rates effective January 1, 2013; therefore, the interchange revenues generated by certain of our ATMs in the U.K. declined in 2013. However, the interchange rates for transactions that will be routed through LINK during 2014 have been slightly increased effective January 1, 2014. In addition to LINK transactions, certain card issuers in the U.K. have issued cards that are not affiliated with the LINK network, and instead carry the Visa or MasterCard network brands. Transactions conducted on our ATMs from these cards, which currently represent less than 2% of our annual withdrawal transactions in the U.K., receive interchange fees that are set by Visa or MasterCard, respectively. The interchange rates set by Visa and MasterCard have historically been less than the rates that have been 11 established by LINK. Accordingly, if any major financial institutions in the U.K. were to decide to leave the LINK network in favor of Visa or MasterCard, such a move could further reduce the interchange revenues that we receive from the related withdrawal transactions conducted on our ATMs in that market. We operate in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. If we are subject to new legislation regarding the operation of our ATMs, we could be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with that legislation, which may reduce our net income and our profit margins. With its initial roots in the banking industry, the U.S. ATM industry is regulated by the rules and regulations of the federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which establishes the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of participants in EFT systems. The vast majority of states have few, if any, licensing requirements. However, legislation related to the U.S. ATM industry is periodically proposed at the state and local level. In recent years, certain members of the U.S. Congress called for a re-examination of the interchange and surcharge fees that are charged for an ATM transaction. As a part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created. The exact areas of oversight of this agency are still being formed, but it’s possible that this new governmental agency could enact new or modify existing regulations that could have a direct or indirect impact on our business. For further discussion on this topic, see the risk factor below entitled The passage of legislation banning or limiting the fees we receive for transactions conducted on our ATMs would severely impact our revenues. The ADA requires that ATMs be accessible to and independently usable by individuals with disabilities, such as visually-impaired or wheel-chair bound persons. The U.S. Department of Justice has issued accessibility regulations under the ADA that became effective in March 2012. Leading up to this deadline, we took measures to achieve compliance with the ADA for our ATMs, which required us to upgrade and replace a portion of our ATM fleet. It is possible that future similar regulations may require us to make more substantial expenditures and we may be forced to replace and or stop operating such ATMs until such time as compliance has been achieved. Through our acquisition of the E*Trade ATM portfolio in 2004, we became the sole defendant in the 2003 lawsuit filed by the National Federation of the Blind, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, et. al. and certain individuals representing a class of similarly situated persons (the "Plaintiffs") against E*Trade Access, Inc., et al. in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts: Civil Action No. 03-11206-NMG (the “Lawsuit”). The Plaintiffs sought to require, among other things, that ATMs deployed by E*Trade be voice-guided. In December 2007, we and Plaintiffs entered into a settlement agreement (as modified in November 2010, the "Settlement Agreement"). In 2011 and again in 2012, the Plaintiffs filed a motion of contempt with the District Court alleging that we had failed to fully comply with the requirements of the Settlement Agreement, which exceed the requirements imposed upon us by the ADA. In April 2013, the Court appointed a Special Master to determine how many of our ATMs were not in compliance with the Settlement Agreement as of March 15, 2012 and to determine an appropriate sanction or fine for such noncompliance, if any. Since his appointment, the Special Master has met three times with all the parties, reviewed all matters thought relevant by him and in December 2013, filed under seal his Report and Recommendation with the Court. The parties have until March 21, 2014 to file any objection to the report or to enter into any further mutually agreed modification to the Settlement Agreement. In the U.K., the ATM industry is largely self-regulating. Most ATMs in the U.K. are part of the LINK network and must operate under the network rules set forth by LINK, including complying with rules regarding required signage and screen messages. However, in March 2013, the U.K. Treasury department issued a formal recommendation to further regulate the U.K. payments industry, including LINK, the nation’s formal ATM scheme. In October 2013, the U.K. government responded by establishing the new Payment Systems Regulator (“PSR”) to oversee any payment system operating in the U.K. and its participants. We are currently uncertain of the effect the new regulator will have on LINK, its rules and its interchange rate setting process. At this time, we are uncertain what impact, if any, this new regulator will have on our business. In July 2013, the European Commission put forward a new draft directive (the “draft Directive”) to regulate payment service providers operating in the European Union (“PSD2”). Broadly, PSD2 seeks to harmonize rules for the licensing of payment institutions and introduces certain common rules affecting all payment service providers (“PSPs”) throughout the European Union. The draft Directive sets out the rights and obligations of payment service users and PSPs together with transparency and security requirements to facilitate safe, efficient payment transactions. Whereas the current Payment Services Directive exempts independent ATM deployers, PSD2 (as currently drafted) will apply to businesses of this nature. The draft Directive is currently still in Committee stage in the European Parliament and has not yet been properly considered by the Council. We anticipate that the draft Directive will not be finalized until 2015 and that it will take up to an additional two years for member states to transpose it into domestic law. In parallel with PSD2, the European Commission has introduced a new Regulation (“MIF Regulation”) aimed at reducing the level of interchange fees charged by card schemes for POS transactions, as well as altering certain of the business rules contained in card scheme rulebooks. The fee caps in the MIF Regulation do not apply to cash withdrawal transactions at ATMs, but certain of the other provisions in the MIF Regulation could apply to ATM operators (although their precise effects are currently uncertain). The Regulation is also currently in Committee stage at the European Parliament and we anticipate that there will be significant amendments to the Commission’s text by the time the Parliament adopts its official position. We anticipate that the MIF Regulation will be finalized in 2015, but in contrast to PSD2, the MIF Regulation will be directly effective in the member states and will not require any further implementing legislation. At this time, we are uncertain what impact, if any, these proposed regulatory changes will have on our business. 12 Legislation is proposed from time-to-time at the national level. We are also subject to various regulations in other jurisdictions that we operate in, including Mexico and Canada. Legislation proposed in any of the jurisdictions that we operate in, or adverse changes in the laws that we are subject to, may materially affect our business through the requirement of additional expenditures to comply with that legislation. We will continue to monitor all such legislation and attempt, to the extent possible, to prevent the passage of such laws that we believe are needlessly burdensome or unnecessary. If regulatory legislation is passed in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we could be required to make substantial expenditures which would reduce our net income. Security breaches could harm our business by compromising merchant and cardholder information and disrupting our transaction processing services, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. As part of our transaction processing services, we electronically process and transmit cardholder information. In recent years, companies that process and transmit this information have been specifically and increasingly targeted by sophisticated criminal organizations in an effort to obtain the information and utilize it for fraudulent transactions. We also maintain a proprietary database of merchant customer profiles. The encryption software and the other technologies we and our partners use to provide security for storage, processing and transmission of confidential customer and other information may not be effective to protect against data security breaches. The risk of unauthorized circumvention of our security measures has been heightened by advances in computer capabilities and the increasing sophistication of hackers. Unauthorized access to our computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could result in the theft or publication of the information or the deletion or modification of sensitive records, and could cause interruptions in our operations. Any inability to prevent security breaches could damage our relationships with our merchant customers, cause a decrease in transactions by individual cardholders, expose us to liability including claims for unauthorized purchases, and subject us to network fines. These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation. If unsuccessful in defending that litigation, we might be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices. Further, a significant data security breach could lead to additional regulation, which could impose new and costly compliance obligations. Any material increase in our costs resulting from additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues and profitability. Computer viruses or unauthorized software (malware) could harm our business by disrupting our transaction processing services, causing noncompliance with network rules and damaging our relationships with our merchant customers, causing a decrease in transactions by individual cardholders. Computer viruses or malware could infiltrate our systems, thus disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Although we utilize several preventative and detective security controls in our network, they may be ineffective in preventing computer viruses or malware that could damage our relationships with our merchant customers, cause a decrease in transactions by individual cardholders, or cause us to be in non-compliance with applicable network rules and regulations. The ATM industry is highly competitive and such competition may increase, which may adversely affect our profit margins. The ATM business is and can be expected to remain highly competitive. Our principal competition comes from independent ATM companies and national and regional financial institutions in all of the countries in which we operate. Our competitors could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our devices, cause us to reduce the surcharge revenue generated by transactions at our devices, or cause us to pay higher merchant fees, thereby reducing our profits. In addition to our current competitors, additional competitors may enter the market. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these current and future competitors. Increased competition could result in transaction fee reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. The passage of legislation banning or limiting the fees we receive for transactions conducted on our ATMs would severely impact our revenues. Despite the nationwide acceptance of surcharge fees at ATMs in the U.S. since their introduction in 1996, consumer activists have from time to time attempted to impose local bans or limits on surcharge fees. Even in the few instances where these efforts have passed the local governing body (such as with an ordinance adopted by the city of Santa Monica, California), federal courts have overturned these local laws on federal preemption grounds. Although Section 1044 of the Dodd-Frank Act passed in July 2010 contains a provision that will limit the application of federal preemption with respect to state laws that do not discriminate against national banks, federal preemption will not be affected by local municipal laws, where such proposed bans or limits often arise. More recently, some federal officials have expressed concern that surcharge fees charged by banks and non-bank ATM operators are unfair to consumers. To that end, in 2010, an amendment proposing limits on the fees that ATM operators, including financial institutions, can charge consumers was introduced in the U.S. Senate, but was not ultimately included in the final version of the Dodd-Frank Act that was signed into law. If similar proposed legislation were to be enacted in the future, and the amount we were able to charge for consumers to use our ATMs was reduced, our revenues and related profitability would be negatively impacted. Furthermore, if such limits were set at levels that are below our current or future costs to operate our ATMs, it would have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate under our current business model. In the U.K., the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons published a report regarding surcharges in the ATM industry in March 2005. Following this report, this committee was formed to investigate public concerns regarding the ATM industry, including (1) adequacy of disclosure to ATM customers regarding surcharges, (2) whether ATM providers should be required to provide free services in 13 low-income areas, and (3) whether to limit the level of surcharges. While the committee made numerous recommendations to Parliament regarding the ATM industry, including that ATMs should be subject to the Banking Code (a voluntary code of practice adopted by all financial institutions in the U.K.), the U.K. government did not accept the committee’s recommendations. Despite the rejection of the committee’s recommendations, the U.K. government sponsored an ATM task force to look at social exclusion in relation to ATM services. As a result of the task force’s findings, approximately 600 additional free-to-use ATMs (to be provided by multiple ATM providers) were required to be installed in low income areas throughout the U.K. While this was less than a 2% increase in free-to-use ATMs throughout the U.K., there is no certainty that other similar proposals will not be made and accepted in the future. If the legislature or another body with regulatory authority in the U.K. were to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in the U.K. would be negatively impacted. In Mexico, surcharging for off-premise ATMs was legalized in late 2003, but was not formally implemented until July 2005. In early October 2009, the Central Bank of Mexico adopted new rules regarding how ATM operators disclose fees to consumers. The objective of these rules was to provide more transparency to the consumer regarding the cost of a specific ATM transaction, rather than to limit the amount of fees charged to the consumer. Such rules, which became effective in May 2010, required ATM operators to elect between receiving interchange fees from card-issuing banks or surcharge fees from consumers. Cardtronics Mexico elected to assess a surcharge fee on the consumer rather than select the interchange fee-only option, and subsequently raised the level of its surcharge fees in order to recoup the interchange fees it is no longer receiving. Since the new fee structure became effective, the number of surcharge withdrawal transactions conducted on Cardtronics Mexico’s ATMs has substantially declined on a same-store basis, and, to date, there has been no indication that suggests transaction levels will recover to levels experienced prior to the new rules being in effect. At the current transaction levels, the additional surcharge fee amounts at a number of Cardtronics Mexico’s ATMs are not sufficient to offset the lost interchange revenues, which has resulted in lower revenues and profitability per ATM in that market. Potential new currency designs may require modifications to our ATMs that could severely impact our cash flows. In that action styled: American Council of the Blind, et. al., v. Timothy F. Geithner, Secretary of the Treasury (Case #1:02-cv-00864) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (the “Court”) an order was entered that found that U.S.’s currencies (as currently designed) violated the Rehabilitation Act, a law that prohibits discrimination in government programs on the basis of disability, as the paper currencies issued by the U.S. are identical in size and color, regardless of denomination. As a consequence of this ruling, the U.S. Treasury stated in its semi-annual status report filed with the Court in September 2012, that the Bureau of Engraving and Printing (“BEP”) was making progress towards implementing the Secretary’s decision to provide meaningful access to paper currency by “(1) adding a raised tactile feature to each Federally Reserve note that the BEP may lawfully redesign; (2) continuing the BEP’s program of adding large high-contrast numerals and different colors to each denomination that it may lawfully redesign; and (3) implementing a supplemental currency reader distribution program for blind and other visually impaired U.S. citizens and legal residents.” Of these three steps only the first materially affects the ATM industry. While it is still uncertain at this time what impact, if any, adding a raised tactile feature to notes that may be dispensed from an ATM will have on the ATM industry (including us), it is possible that such a change could require us to incur additional costs, which could be substantial, to modify our ATMs in order to store and dispense notes with raised tactile features. Risks associated with our business We depend on ATM and financial services transaction fees for substantially all of our revenues, and our revenues and profits would be reduced by a decline in the usage of our ATMs and financial services kiosks or a decline in the number of devices that we operate, whether as a result of global economic conditions or otherwise. Transaction fees charged to cardholders and their financial institutions for transactions processed on our ATMs and financial services kiosks, including surcharge and interchange transaction fees, have historically accounted for most of our revenues. We expect that transaction fees, including fees we receive through our bank branding and surcharge-free network offerings, will continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, our future operating results will depend on (1) the market acceptance of our services in our target markets, (2) the level of transaction fees we receive, (3) our ability to install, acquire, operate, and retain more devices, (4) usage of our devices by cardholders, and (5) our ability to continue to expand our surcharge-free and other consumer financial services offerings. If alternative technologies to our services are successfully developed and implemented, we will likely experience a decline in the usage of our devices. Surcharge fees, which are determined through negotiations between us and our merchant partners, could be reduced over time. Further, growth in surcharge-free ATM networks and widespread consumer bias toward these networks could adversely affect our revenues, even though we maintain our own surcharge-free offerings. Many of our devices are utilized by consumers that frequent the retail establishments in which our devices are located, including convenience stores and gas stations, malls, grocery stores, drug stores, airports, and other large retailers. If there is a significant slowdown in consumer spending, and the number of consumers that frequent the retail establishments in which we operate our devices declines significantly, the number of transactions conducted on those devices, and the corresponding transaction fees we earn, may also decline. A decline in usage of our devices by cardholders or in the levels of fees received by us in connection with this usage, or a decline in the number of devices that we operate, would have a negative impact on our revenues and gross profits and would limit our future growth. For further discussion on interchange fees, see the risk factor above entitled Interchange fees, which comprise a substantial portion of our transaction revenues, may be lowered in some cases at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which our transactions are routed, or through potential regulatory changes, thus reducing our future revenues. 14 Deterioration in global credit markets, as well as changes in legislative and regulatory requirements, could have a negative impact on financial institutions that we conduct business with. We have a significant number of customer and vendor relationships with financial institutions in all of our key markets, including relationships in which those financial institutions pay us for the right to place their brands on our devices. Additionally, we rely on a small number of financial institution partners to provide us with the cash that we maintain in our Company-owned devices and some of our merchant-owned ATMs. Volatility in the global credit markets, such as that experienced in 2008 to 2009, may have a negative impact on those financial institutions and our relationships with them. In particular, if the liquidity positions of the financial institutions with which we conduct business deteriorate significantly, these institutions may be unable to perform under their existing agreements with us. If these defaults were to occur, we may not be successful in our efforts to identify new branding partners and cash providers, and the underlying economics of any new arrangements may not be consistent with our current arrangements. Furthermore, if our existing bank branding partners or cash providers are acquired by other institutions with assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), or placed into receivership by the FDIC, it is possible that our agreements may be rejected in part or in their entirety. We rely on third parties to provide us with the cash we require to operate many of our devices. If these third parties were unable or unwilling to provide us with the necessary cash to operate our devices, we would need to locate alternative sources of cash to operate our devices or we would not be able to operate our business. In the U.S., including Puerto Rico, we rely on Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Elan, and other vault cash providers to provide us with the cash that we use in approximately 33,500 of our domestic devices where cash is not provided by the merchant. In the U.K., we rely on Santander and Barclays to provide us with the vault cash that we use in over 8,500 of our ATMs. In Germany, we also rely on a third party to provide us with the vault cash that we use in over 800 of our ATMs. In Mexico, we have three vault cash providers that provide us with the cash that we use in approximately 2,000 of our ATMs in that market. In Canada, we also rely on financial institutions to provide us with the cash that we use in approximately 600 of our ATMs in that market. Under our vault cash rental agreements with these providers, we pay a vault cash rental fee based on the total amount of vault cash that we are using at any given time. For the quarter ended December 31, 2013, the average balance of vault cash held in our domestic ATMs was approximately $2.0 billion, $661.9 million in our ATMs in the U.K., and $129.3 million in our other international subsidiaries. Under our vault cash rental agreements, at all times during this process, beneficial ownership of the cash is retained by the cash providers, and we have no access or right to the cash except for those ATMs that are serviced by Green Team, our wholly-owned armored courier operation in the U.K. While our armored courier operation has physical access to the cash loaded in those machines, beneficial ownership of that cash remains with the cash provider at all times. Our existing vault cash rental agreements expire at various times from March 2014 through December 2016. However, each provider has the right to demand the return of all or any portion of its cash at any time upon the occurrence of certain events beyond our control, including certain bankruptcy events of us or our subsidiaries, or a breach of the terms of our cash provider agreements. Other key terms of our agreements include the requirement that the cash providers provide written notice of their intent not to renew. Such notice provisions typically require a minimum of 180 to 360 days’ notice prior to the actual termination date. If such notice is not received, then the contracts will typically automatically renew for an additional one-year period. Additionally, our contract with one of our vault cash providers contains a provision that allows the provider to modify the pricing terms contained within the agreement at any time with 90 days prior written notice. However, in the event both parties do not agree to the pricing modifications, then either party may provide 180 days prior written notice of its intent to terminate. If our vault cash providers were to demand return of their cash or terminate their arrangements with us and remove their cash from our devices, or if they fail to provide us with cash as and when we need it for our operations, our ability to operate our devices would be jeopardized, and we would need to locate alternative sources of vault cash. In the event this was to happen, the terms and conditions of the new or renewed agreements could potentially be less favorable to us, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, restrictions on our access to cash to fill our devices could severely restrict our ability to keep our devices operating, and could subject us to performance penalties under our contracts with our customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from devices placed with a small number of merchants. If one or more of our top merchants were to suffer a material deterioration of their business and cease doing business with us, or to substantially reduce its dealings with us, our revenues could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we derived 41% of our pro forma revenues from ATMs and financial services kiosks placed at the locations of our five largest merchant customers. Pro forma revenues are our actual total revenues for 2013 and the pro forma effect of the Cardpoint acquisition for the entire year of 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our top five merchants (based on our total revenues) were 7-Eleven, CVS, Walgreens, Speedway, and Valero. 7-Eleven, which is the single largest merchant customer in our portfolio, comprised approximately 24% of our pro forma revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 and also accounts for a significant portion of our income. Accordingly, a significant percentage of our future revenues and operating income will be dependent upon the successful continuation of our relationship with 7-Eleven as well as our other top merchants. 15 The loss of any of our largest merchants or a decision by any one of them to reduce the number of our devices placed in their locations would result in a decline in our revenues. Furthermore, if their financial conditions were to deteriorate in the future, and as a result, one or more of these merchants was required to close a significant number of their store locations, our revenues would be significantly impacted. Additionally, these merchants may elect not to renew their contracts when they expire. As of December 31, 2013, the contracts we have with our top five merchants have a weighted average remaining life of 3.3 years, and our current contract with 7-Eleven expires in July 2017. Even if such contracts are renewed, the renewal terms may be less favorable to us than the current contracts. If any of our five largest merchants enters bankruptcy proceedings and rejects its contract with us, fails to renew its contract upon expiration, or if the renewal terms with any of them are less favorable to us than under our current contracts, it could result in a decline in our revenues and profits. We rely on EFT network providers, transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers to provide services to our ATMs. If some of these providers that service a significant number of our ATMs fail or otherwise cease or no longer agree to provide their services, we could suffer a temporary loss of transaction revenues, incur significant costs or suffer the permanent loss of any contract with a merchant or financial institution affected by such disruption in service. We rely on EFT network providers and have agreements with various transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers. These providers enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement, cash management and delivery, and maintenance services to our ATMs. Typically, these agreements are for periods of two or three years each. If we improperly manage the renewal or replacement of any expiring vendor contracts, or a key vendor fails or otherwise ceases to provide the services for which we have contracted and disruption of service to our ATMs occurs, our relationship with those merchants and financial institutions affected by the disrupted ATM service could suffer. While we have more than one provider for each of the services that we rely on third parties to perform, certain of these providers currently provide services to or for a significant number of our ATMs. Although we would be able to transition these services to alternative service providers, this could be a time-consuming and costly process. In the event one of such service providers was unable to deliver services to us, we could suffer a significant disruption in our business, which could result in a material adverse impact to our financial results. Furthermore, any disruptions in service in any of our markets, whether caused by us or by third-party providers, may result in a loss of revenues under certain of our contractual arrangements that contain minimum service-level requirements. In February 2010, we incurred a temporary disruption in our armored courier service on a portion of our domestic ATMs when Mount Vernon Money Center (“MVMC”), one of our third-party armored service providers in the Northeast U.S., ceased all cash replenishment operations for its customers following the arrest of its founder and principal owner on charges of bank fraud. Shortly thereafter, the U.S. District Court in the Southern District of New York appointed a receiver to, among other things, seize all of the assets in the possession of MVMC. As a result of these actions, we were required to convert over 1,000 ATMs that were being serviced by MVMC to another third-party armored service provider, resulting in a minor amount of downtime being experienced by those ATMs and some one-time service conversion costs. If any of our larger service providers cease or no longer agree to provide their services, we may experience additional disruptions in our services and may incur significant conversion costs to divert those services to another service provider. If we, our transaction processors, our EFT networks or other service providers experience system failures, the products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our EFT transaction processing platform, third-party transaction processors, telecommunications network systems, and other service providers. Accordingly, any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenues. Additionally, if any interruption is caused by us, especially in those situations in which we serve as the primary transaction processor, such interruption could result in the loss of the affected merchants and financial institutions, or damage our relationships with them. Our systems and operations and those of our transaction processors and our EFT network and other service providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses, among other things. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. Our armored transport business exposes us to additional risks beyond those currently experienced by us in the ownership and operation of ATMs. During 2008, we implemented our own armored courier operation in the U.K., which was further expanded to two cash depot facilities during 2010. As of December 31, 2013, we were providing armored services to over 2,900 of our ATMs in that market and we currently intend to further expand that operation to service additional ATMs, including those acquired through the Cardpoint acquisition in 2013. Additionally, we currently expect that we will begin providing similar armored courier services to third parties in the near future. The armored transport business exposes us to significant risks, including the potential for cash-in-transit losses, employee theft, as well as claims for personal injury, wrongful death, worker's compensation, punitive damages, and general liability. While we seek to maintain appropriate levels of insurance to adequately protect us from these risks, there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant future claims or adverse publicity related thereto. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover potential liabilities or that insurance coverage will remain available at costs that are acceptable to us. The availability of quality and reliable insurance coverage is 16 an important factor in our ability to successfully operate this aspect of our operations. A loss claim for which insurance coverage is denied or that is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operational failures in our EFT transaction processing facilities could harm our business and our relationships with our merchant and financial institution customers. An operational failure in our EFT transaction processing facilities could harm our business and damage our relationships with our merchant and financial institution customers. Damage or destruction that interrupts our transaction processing services could also cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. We have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or react to such disruptions. However, a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours (i.e., where our backup systems are not able to recover) could result in data loss or a reduction in revenues as our devices would be unable to process transactions. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential merchant and financial institution customers to choose alternative service providers, as well as subject us to fines or penalties related to contractual service agreements. Errors or omissions in the settlement of merchant funds could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. We are responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for certain of our merchant customers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. This process relies on precise and authorized maintenance of electronic records. Although we have controls in place to help ensure the safety and accuracy of our records, errors or unauthorized changes to these records could result in the erroneous or fraudulent movement of funds, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. Changes in interest rates could increase our operating costs by increasing interest expense under our credit facilities and our vault cash rental costs. Interest on amounts borrowed under our revolving credit facility is based on a floating interest rate, and our vault cash rental expense is based primarily on floating interest rates. As a result, our interest expense and cash management costs are sensitive to changes in interest rates. We pay rental fees on the average amount of vault cash outstanding in our ATMs under floating rate formulas based on a spread above various LIBOR rates in the U.S., U.K., and Germany. In Mexico, we pay a monthly rental fee to one of our vault cash providers under a formula based on the Interbank Equilibrium Interest Rate (commonly referred to as the “TIIE”) and in Canada, the rate is based on the Bankers Acceptance Rate. Although we currently hedge a portion of our vault cash interest rate risk related to our operations in the U.S. through December 31, 2018 by using interest rate swap agreements, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements for similar amounts in the future. Furthermore, we have not currently entered into any derivative financial instruments to hedge our variable interest rate exposure in our international subsidiaries. Any significant future increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow by increasing our operating costs and expenses. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Interest Rate Risk. We maintain a significant amount of cash within our Company-owned devices, which is subject to potential loss due to theft or other events, including natural disasters. For the quarter ended December 31, 2013, there was an average of approximately $2.7 billion in vault cash held in our domestic and international ATMs. Any loss of cash from our ATMs is generally our responsibility. We typically require that our service providers, who either transport the cash or otherwise have access to the ATM safe, maintain adequate insurance coverage in the event cash losses occur as a result of theft, misconduct, or negligence on the part of such providers. Cash losses at the ATM occur in a variety of ways, such as natural disaster (hurricanes, tornadoes, etc.), fires, vandalism, and physical removal of the entire ATM, defeating the interior safe or by compromising the ATM’s technology components. Because our ATMs are often installed at retail sites, they face exposure to attempts of theft and vandalism. Thefts of cash may be the result of an individual acting alone or as a part of a crime group. In recent periods, we have seen an increase in theft of cash from our ATMs across all of the geographic regions in which we operate. For instance, during the fourth quarter of 2013, in response to increased physical ATM theft attempts and lower profitability on certain ATMs in Mexico, we took a number of ATMs out of service for a period of time to enhance some security features. While we maintain insurance policies to cover a significant portion of any losses that may occur that are not covered by the insurance policies maintained by our service providers, such insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations that may leave us bearing some or all of those losses. Any increase in the frequency and/or amounts of theft and other losses could negatively impact our operating results by causing higher deductible payments and increased insurance premiums. Additionally, any damage sustained to our merchant customers’ store locations in connection with any ATM-related thefts, if extensive and frequent enough in nature, could negatively impact our relationships with those merchants and impair our ability to deploy additional ATMs in those existing or new locations of those merchants. Certain merchants have requested, and could request in the future, that we remove ATMs from store locations that have suffered damage as a result of ATM-related thefts, thus negatively impacting our financial results. Finally, we have in the past, and may in the future, voluntarily remove cash from 17 certain ATMs on a temporary or permanent basis to mitigate further losses arising from theft or vandalism. Depending on the magnitude and duration of any cash removal, our revenues and profits could be materially and adversely affected. The election of our merchant customers to not participate in our surcharge-free network offerings could impact the effectiveness of our offerings, which would negatively impact our financial results. Financial institutions that are members of the Allpoint network pay a fee in exchange for allowing their cardholders to use selected Company-owned and/or managed ATMs on a surcharge-free basis. The success of the Allpoint network is dependent upon the participation by our merchant customers in that network. In the event a significant number of our merchants elect not to participate in that network, the benefits and effectiveness of the network would be diminished, thus potentially causing some of the participating financial institutions to not renew their agreements with us, and thereby negatively impacting our financial results. We may be unable to integrate our future acquisitions in an efficient manner and inefficiencies would increase our cost of operations and reduce our profitability. We have been an active business acquirer both in the U.S. and internationally, and may continue to be active in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses involves a number of risks. The core risks are in the areas of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s personnel, products, technology, and other assets so as to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of the companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. In addition, acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows. Any shortfall in anticipated revenues, earnings, or cash flows could require us to write down the carrying value of the intangible assets associated with any acquired company, which would adversely affect our reported earnings. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $50.0 million impairment charge to write down the value of the goodwill associated with our investment in the U.K. operations we operated at that time. Since May 2001, we have acquired 23 ATM portfolios, a surcharge-free ATM network, a technology product offering that complements our surcharge-free offering, an ATM installation company in the U.K., and a Scotland-based provider and developer of marketing and advertising software and services for ATM owners. We have made acquisitions to obtain the assets of deployed ATM networks and the related businesses and their infrastructure, as well as for strategic reasons to enhance the capability of our ATMs and expand our service offerings. We currently anticipate that our future acquisitions, if any, will likely reflect a mix of asset acquisitions and acquisitions of businesses, with each acquisition having its own set of unique characteristics. To the extent that we elect to acquire an existing company or the operations, technology, and the personnel of the company, we may assume some or all of the liabilities associated with the acquired company and face new and added challenges integrating such acquisition into our operations. We completed five business acquisitions in 2013, three business acquisitions in 2012, and four business acquisitions in 2011. Any inability on our part to effectively manage the acquisition integration process could limit our ability to successfully grow the revenue and profitability of our business. Our international operations, including any future international operations, involve special risks and may not be successful, which would result in a reduction of our gross and net profits. As of December 31, 2013, 20% of our devices were located in the U.K., Germany, Mexico, and Canada. Those devices contributed 15% of our gross profits (exclusive of depreciation, accretion, and amortization) for the year ended December 31, 2013. We expect to continue to expand in the countries in which we currently operate, and potentially into other countries as opportunities arise. However, our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: · exposure to currency fluctuations, including the risk that our future reported operating results could be negatively impacted by unfavorable movements in the functional currencies of our international operations relative to the U.S. dollar, which represents our consolidated reporting currency; · difficulties in complying with the different laws and regulations in each country and jurisdiction in which we operate, including unique labor and reporting laws; · unexpected changes in laws, regulations, and policies of foreign governments or other regulatory bodies, including changes that could potentially disallow surcharging or that could result in a reduction in the amount of interchange or other transaction-based fees that we receive; · unanticipated political and social instability that may be experienced; 18 · rising crime rates in certain of the areas we operate in, including increased incidents of crimes on our ATMs and against store personnel where our ATMs are located; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including hiring and retaining skilled workers in those countries in which we operate; · decreased ATM usage related to decreased travel and tourism in the markets that we operate in, such as our ATMs in Mexico that are located in tourist destinations; and · potential adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of foreign earnings. Any of these factors could reduce the profitability and revenues derived from our international operations and international expansion. For example, during the latter half of 2008 and during 2009, we incurred reduced reported revenues as a consequence of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the British pound and Mexican peso. Additionally, regulatory changes in Mexico have had an adverse impact on our transaction volumes in that market. Furthermore, the recent political and social instability in Mexico resulting from an increase in drug-related violence could negatively impact the level of transactions conducted on our existing devices in that market, as well as our ability to successfully grow our business there. In 2013, as a result of a change in approach by the U.K. governmental entity that oversees property tax valuations and assessments, we recorded additional estimated property tax expense of $8.7 million related to some of our ATM sites, most of which related to periods prior to 2013, even though we previously had no obligation to report or remit such taxes. Further consolidations within the banking industry may impact our branding relationships as existing branding customers are acquired by other financial institutions, some of which may not be existing branding customers. During the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, an unprecedented amount of consolidation unfolded within the U.S. banking industry. For example, Washington Mutual, which had over 950 ATMs branded with us, was acquired by JPMorgan Chase, an existing branding customer of ours, in 2008. Additionally, Wachovia, which had 15 high-transaction ATMs branded with us, was acquired by Wells Fargo, a bank that was not an existing branding customer of ours, at the end of 2008. Furthermore, in 2009, Sovereign Bank, which currently has over 1,150 ATMs branded with us, was acquired by Banco Santander, one of the largest banks in Europe. Although our branding contracts were largely unaffected by these transactions, we cannot provide assurance that they will remain unaffected by future consolidations that may occur within the banking industry, and in particular, our branding partners. If we experience impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, we will be required to record a charge to earnings, which may be significant. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and are required to perform periodic assessments for any possible impairment for accounting purposes. As of December 31, 2013, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $566.1 million, or 54% of our total assets. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we added $195.3 million in goodwill and intangible assets associated with the acquisition of five businesses in the year. We periodically evaluate the recoverability and the amortization period of our intangible assets under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). Some of the factors that we consider to be important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include the performance of the related assets relative to the expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. These factors and assumptions, and any changes in them, could result in an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. In the event we determine our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements, which would negatively impact our results of operations and that impact could be material. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $50.0 million goodwill impairment charge related to our U.K. operations. Other impairment charges in the future may also adversely affect our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, our outstanding indebtedness was $490.5 million, which represents 66.5% of our total book capitalization of $737.6 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow in the future to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, and adverse changes in government regulation; and · limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs, or other purposes. 19 Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money, or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. The terms of our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes include a number of covenants that, among other items, restrict or limit our ability to: · sell or transfer property or assets; · pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; · merge into or consolidate with any third-party; · create, incur, assume, or guarantee additional indebtedness; · create certain liens; · make investments; · engage in transactions with affiliates; · issue or sell preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries; and · enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we are required by our credit agreement to adhere to certain covenants and maintain specified financial ratios. While we currently have the ability to borrow the full amount available under our credit agreement, as a result of these ratios, we may be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business in the future and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance our future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. A failure to comply with the covenants or financial ratios could result in an event of default. In the event of a default under our credit agreement, the lenders could exercise a number of remedies, some of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the senior subordinated notes. An acceleration of indebtedness under our credit agreement would also likely result in an event of default under the terms of any other financing arrangement we have outstanding at the time. If any or all of our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay our indebtedness in full. If we are unable to repay any amounts outstanding under our bank credit facility when due, the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral securing our indebtedness. For additional information about our credit agreement and indentures, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Facilities. The fundamental change and make-whole fundamental change provisions associated with our convertible notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us. The fundamental change purchase rights, which will allow holders of our convertible notes to require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, and the provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with certain other circumstances may delay or prevent a takeover of us or the removal of current management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay the amount of cash due upon conversion of the convertible notes, if relevant, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as described in our convertible indentures, and our debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or required purchase of the convertible notes. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of our convertible notes may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their convertible notes at a fundamental change purchase price specified within the convertible note indentures. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the fundamental change purchase price if holders submit their convertible notes for purchase by us upon the occurrence of a fundamental change or to pay the amount of cash (if any) due if holders surrender their convertible notes for conversion. In addition, the occurrence of a fundamental change may cause an event of default under agreements governing our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness. Agreements governing any future debt may also restrict our ability to make any of the required cash payments even if we have sufficient funds to make them. Furthermore, our ability to purchase the convertible notes or to pay cash (if any) due upon the conversion of the convertible notes may be limited by law or regulatory authority. In addition, if we fail to purchase the convertible notes or to pay the amount of cash (if any) due upon conversion of the convertible notes, we will be in default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our other indebtedness, which in turn may result in the acceleration of other indebtedness we may then have. If the repayment of the other indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay that indebtedness and to purchase the convertible notes or to pay the amount of cash (if any) due upon conversion. 20 Noncompliance with established EFT network rules and regulations could expose us to fines and penalties and could negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, new EFT network rules and regulations could require us to expend significant amounts of capital to remain in compliance with such rules and regulations. Our transactions are routed over various EFT networks to obtain authorization for cash disbursements and to provide account balances. These networks include Star, Pulse, NYCE, Cirrus (MasterCard), and Plus (Visa) in the U.S.; LINK in the U.K.; Promoción y Operación S.A. de C.V. (“PROSA-RED”) in Mexico; Interac in Canada; and Girocard in Germany. EFT networks set the interchange fees that they charge to the financial institutions, as well as the amounts paid to us. Additionally, EFT networks, including MasterCard and Visa, establish rules and regulations that ATM providers, including ourselves, must comply with in order for member cardholders to use those ATMs. Failure to comply with such rules and regulations could expose us to penalties and/or fines, which could negatively impact our financial results. For example, in the U.K. and Canada, MasterCard and Visa require compliance with the EMV security standard. This standard provides for the security and processing of information contained on microchips imbedded in certain debit and credit cards, known as “smart cards.” In 2012, MasterCard announced plans for a liability shift from the issuers of these cards to the party that has not made the investment in EMV equipment (acquirer) for fraudulent counterfeit card Maestro cross-border transactions. MasterCard’s liability shift on International Maestro (MasterCard) transactions occurred in April 2013, and while the majority of our U.S. ATMs are not currently EMV-compliant, we do not expect this liability shift to have a significant impact on our business or results as International Maestro transactions currently comprise less than 1% of our U.S. transaction volume. As of the Maestro liability shift date, we have implemented additional fraud monitoring methods to minimize fraud losses. To date, we have seen minimal fraud losses. In February 2013, Visa announced plans for a liability shift to occur in October 2017 for all transactions types on domestic or international EMV-issued cards. MasterCard has also announced that a liability shift for its domestic ATM transactions on EMV-issued cards will occur in October 2016. At this time, neither MasterCard nor Visa are requiring mandatory upgrades to ATM equipment; however, increased fraudulent activity on ATMs in the future or the shifting of liability for fraudulent activity on all ATM transactions without EMV readers, or other business or regulatory factors could cause us to upgrade or replace a significant portion of our existing U.S. ATM fleet. We are closely monitoring the migration toward the EMV standard, and all of our recent ATM deployments have been with ATMs that are EMV-ready. At this time, through a combination of ordinary replacement of equipment, routine scheduled maintenance visits to our ATMs, and evolving technology to meet compliance, we do not expect the EMV migration to have a significant impact on our future capital investments and results from operations. However, we currently estimate that the incremental potential cost to make our entire current Company-owned U.S. ATM fleet fully compliant with the EMV standard is approximately $30 million to $35 million, a portion of which has already been planned for within our budget for 2014. With the increased capital investments required as a direct result of EMV, our depreciation expense may increase in the future. Additionally, there is a possibility that we could incur asset write-offs or accelerated depreciation expense on certain ATM units. Additionally, we could experience a higher rate of unit count attrition for our merchant-owned ATMs in the future as a result of this standard. The majority of the electronic debit networks over which our transactions are conducted require sponsorship by a bank, and the loss of any of our sponsors may cause disruptions to our operations. In each of the geographic segments in which we operate, bank sponsorship is required in order to process transactions over certain networks. In the U.S., our largest geographic segment by revenues, bank sponsorship is required on the significant majority of our transactions and we primarily rely on one sponsor bank for access to the applicable networks, and, in lesser part, on two other sponsor banks. In our U.K. segment, only international transactions require bank sponsorship. In Mexico, all ATM transactions require bank sponsorship, which is currently provided by our banking partners in the country. In Canada and Germany, bank sponsorships are also required and are obtained through our relationships with third-party processors. If our current sponsor banks decide to no longer provide this service, or are no longer financially capable of providing this service as may be determined by certain networks, it may be difficult to find an adequate replacement at a cost similar to what we incur today, or potentially, we could incur a temporary service disruption for certain transactions in the event we lose or do not retain bank sponsorship, which may negatively impact our profitability. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing automated consumer financial services industry, and the geographical segments in which we operate. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of several of our senior executives would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage, and retain other qualified management, as well as technical and operational personnel as we grow. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel in the future, which could adversely impact our business. We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase our costs and individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business. We currently conduct a portion of our business outside the U.S. Thus, we are subject to a number of laws and regulations which affect our international operations in a number of areas. These foreign laws and regulations affect our business including, but not limited to, areas of labor, advertising, consumer protection, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property ownership and 21 infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health, and safety. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. We operate in several jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar anti-corruption laws. Our business operations in countries outside the U.S. are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from paying or promising to pay government officials, political parties, or political party officials for the purpose of obtaining, retaining, influencing, or directing business. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our employees and agents may interact with government officials on our behalf, including interactions necessary to obtain licenses and other regulatory approvals necessary to operate our business, import or export equipment and resolve tax disputes. These interactions create a risk that actions may occur that could violate the FCPA or other similar laws. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations as well as U.S. laws and regulations, including the FCPA, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants, contractors and agents will abide by our policies. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or similar anti-corruption laws in international jurisdictions, either due to our own acts or out of inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Risks associated with our common stock Our operating results have fluctuated historically and could continue to fluctuate in the future, which could affect our ability to maintain our current market position or expand. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions in the ATM and financial services industries; · changes in payment trends and offerings in the markets in which we operate; · competition from other companies providing the same or similar services that we offer; · the timing and magnitude of operating expenses, capital expenditures, and expenses related to the expansion of sales, marketing, and operations, including as a result of acquisitions, if any; · the timing and magnitude of any impairment charges that may materialize over time relating to our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets; · changes in the general level of interest rates in the markets in which we operate; · changes in regulatory requirements associated with the ATM and financial services industries; · changes in the mix of our current services; · changes in the financial condition and credit risk of our customers; and · changes in the financial condition and operational execution of our key vendors and service providers. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we have experienced revenue growth in recent years, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and interest expense. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. 22 We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, which may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the trading price of our convertible notes. We may conduct future offerings of our common stock, preferred stock or other securities convertible into our common stock to fund acquisitions, finance operations or for general corporate purposes. In addition, we may also issue common stock under our equity awards programs. The market price of shares of our common stock or the trading price of the convertible notes could decrease significantly if we conduct such future offerings, if any of our existing stockholders sells a substantial amount of our common stock or if the market perceives that such offerings or sales may occur. Moreover, any issuance of additional common stock will dilute the ownership interest of our existing common stockholders, and may adversely affect the ability of holders of the notes to participate in any appreciation of our common stock. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash could have a material effect on our reported financial results. Under U.S. GAAP, an entity must separately account for the debt component and the embedded conversion option of convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion, such as our convertible notes, in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of the accounting treatment for such instruments is that the value of such embedded conversion option is treated as an original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes, and that original issue discount is amortized into interest expense over the term of the convertible notes using an effective yield method. As a result, we were initially required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the original issue discount to the convertible notes’ face amount over the term of the notes and as a result of the amortization of the debt issuance costs. Accordingly, we will report lower net income in our financial results because of the recognition of both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the convertible notes’ coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes. Under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash are evaluated for their impact on earnings per share utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the notes are accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be certain that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes, then our diluted earnings per share could be adversely affected. In addition, if the conditional conversion feature of the notes is triggered, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 