ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Adverse conditions in the economy and geopolitical environment could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. Retailers are particularly sensitive to adverse global economic and business conditions, especially to the extent they result in a loss of consumer confidence and decreases in consumer spending. The current world-wide credit market disruptions and economic slowdown have negatively impacted consumer confidence, consumer spending and, consequently, our business. In general, our sales result from discretionary spending by our customers, and discretionary spending is particularly vulnerable to declines in disposable income and actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not be adversely affected. If these economic and market conditions persist, spread or deteriorate further, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject 17 Table of Contents to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Initiatives that we have undertaken to reduce costs may not be sufficient to offset the results of a prolonged or more severe downturn, and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to implement in the near term, due in part to certain fixed costs associated with some of our operations. Further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could strain our operations. Our current business strategy that focuses on large-format retail stores has not been proven successful on a long-term basis and may negatively impact our operating results. In fiscal 2003, we began implementing our current business strategy that focuses on large-format retail stores. The viability of this business strategy has not been proven on a long-term basis. We have transitioned from opening approximately 30,000-square-foot stores to predominantly opening stores ranging from 50,000 to 120,000 square feet. The results we achieved at our small-format stores may not be indicative of the results that we may achieve at our new large-format stores. The large format increases our operating costs per store, but may not lead to proportionately increased revenues per store. Our mix of higher and lower-margin merchandise in our large-format stores differs from the merchandise mix in our small-format stores, and therefore, may negatively impact our gross margins in our large-format stores. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating our large-format stores on a profitable basis. If a large-format store is unprofitable, the impact on our financial results could be greater than the impact of an unprofitable small-format store. Our concentration of stores in the Great Lakes region of the United States makes us susceptible to adverse conditions in this region, including atypical weather. The majority of our stores are located in the Great Lakes region of the United States. Our growth has resulted in other regional concentrations over time, such as in Texas and Florida. As a result, our operations are more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. These factors include regional economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes and governmental regulations in the states in which we operate. Environmental changes and disease epidemics affecting fish or game populations in any concentrated region may also affect our sales. If a concentrated region were to suffer an economic downturn or other adverse event, our operating results could suffer. Our results of operations may be harmed by atypical weather conditions. Many of our stores are located in areas that traditionally experience seasonably cold weather. Abnormally warm weather conditions could reduce our sales of seasonal items and harm our operating results. Moreover, significant snowfalls or other adverse weather on peak shopping days, particularly during the holiday season, could adversely impact our sales if potential customers choose not to shop during those days. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. We experience substantial seasonal fluctuations in our sales and operating results. We generated approximately 57% of our net sales in our third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, which include the peak hunting and holiday seasons. We incur significant additional expenses in the third and fourth fiscal quarters due to higher purchase volumes and increased staffing in our stores. If, for any reason, we miscalculate the demand for our products or our product mix during the third or fourth fiscal quarters, our sales in these quarters could decline, resulting in higher labor costs as a percentage of sales, significantly lower margins and excess inventory, which could cause our annual operating results to suffer and our stock price to decline significantly. Due to our significant seasonality, the possible adverse impact from other risks associated with our business, including atypical weather, consumer 18 Table of Contents spending levels, and general business conditions, is potentially greater if any such risks occur during our peak sales seasons. The continued growth and operation of our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate capital, which could be adversely impacted by current credit market conditions. The continued growth and operation of our business depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. We cannot assure you that our operations will generate positive cash flow or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our credit facility contains provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make substantial asset sales that might otherwise be used to finance our expansion. Security interests in substantially all of our assets, which may further limit our access to certain capital markets or lending sources, secure our obligations under the credit facility. The actual availability of funds under our credit facility is limited to specified percentages of our eligible inventory and accounts receivable. The value of our eligible inventory is subject to periodic adjustment based on independent valuations performed on behalf of the banks. Any downward adjustment in the value of our inventory resulting from an independent valuation, whether based on an assessment of the nature and quality of our inventory or a perceived increase in the difficulty of selling collateral under current economic conditions, would adversely affect our availability. Moreover, opportunities for increasing our cash on hand through sales of inventory would be partially offset by reduced availability under our credit facility. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to finance any future expansion plans. In addition, recent U.S. mortgage and other credit defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues that have continued, leading to liquidity disruption. Moreover, many lenders have faced significant liquidity concerns and have faced dissolution or significantly restricted their lending. If the global credit market does not improve or continues to deteriorate, our ability to borrow or raise funds may be impacted, which would materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion into new, unfamiliar markets presents increased risks that may prevent us from being profitable in these new markets. Pursuant to our growth strategy, we have opened stores in new markets. In these new markets, we may have less familiarity with local customer preferences, difficulties in attracting customers due to a reduced level of customer familiarity with our brand, difficulties in hiring a sufficient number of qualified store associates and other challenges. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new, unfamiliar competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating our stores in new markets on a profitable basis. Our expansion strategy includes further penetration of our existing markets, which could cause sales at our existing stores to decline. Pursuant to our expansion strategy, we have opened additional stores in our existing markets. Because our new, larger stores typically draw customers from a greater area, a new store may draw customers away from any existing stores in the general service area and may cause sales performance and customer counts at those existing stores to decline, which may adversely affect our overall operating results. 19 Table of Contents We are expanding into new product areas with which we have limited experience and which may not be profitable for us. We are continually looking for new products to introduce at our stores and believe that entering new product areas is an important part of our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify new product areas or successfully introduce them at our stores. In addition, the identification, introduction and operation of these new businesses may distract our attention from existing product areas and adversely affect our overall operating results. An inability to find suitable new store sites or delays in new store openings could materially affect our financial performance. In order to meet our growth objectives, we will need to secure an adequate number of suitable new store sites. We require that all proposed store sites satisfy our criteria regarding cost and location. In addition, we are experiencing increased competition for store sites as our competitors seek to expand. Local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and also influence the cost of constructing new stores. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find a sufficient number of suitable new sites for any planned expansion in any future period. Our expected financial performance is based on our new stores opening on expected dates. It is possible that events such as problems with our credit, delays in the entitlements process or construction delays caused by permitting or licensing issues, material shortages, labor issues, weather delays or other acts of god, discovery of contaminants, accidents, deaths or injunctions could delay planned new store openings beyond their expected dates or force us to abandon planned openings altogether. Any failure on our part to recognize or respond to these issues may adversely affect our sales growth, which in turn may adversely affect our future operating results. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results and financial condition could suffer. Our performance depends largely on the leadership efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. None of our employees, except certain senior executive officers, have an employment agreement with us. If we lose the services of one or more of our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our growth objectives. As our business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in a timely manner. We rely on a single distribution center for our retail business and a single fulfillment center for our internet and catalog business, and if there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at either facility, we may be unable to deliver merchandise effectively to our stores or customers. We rely on a single distribution center in Lebanon, Indiana for our retail business, and a single fulfillment center in Greenville, North Carolina for our internet and catalog business. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption at either facility due to fire, tornado, flood or any other cause could damage our on-site inventory or impair our ability to use such distribution center or fulfillment center. While we maintain business interruption insurance, as well as general property insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our losses in such an event. Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to adequately stock our stores or fulfill customer orders and harm our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our planned growth may strain our business infrastructure, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Over time, we expect to again expand the size of our retail store network. As we grow, we will face the risk that our existing resources and systems, including management resources, accounting and finance personnel and operating systems, may be inadequate to support our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the personnel or make the changes in our systems that may be required to support our growth. Failure to secure these resources and implement these systems could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the retention of additional personnel and the implementation of changes and enhancements to our systems will require capital expenditures and other increased costs that could also have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our expansion in new and existing markets and our acquisition of Overton's may also create new distribution and merchandising challenges, including strain on our distribution facilities, an increase in information to be processed by our management information systems and diversion of management attention from operations towards the opening of new stores and markets. We intend to upgrade and replace certain of our current management information systems in order to support our growth strategy. Based on our current growth strategy, we will need to increase our distribution capabilities within the next few years, which could disrupt our business operations. To the extent that we are not able to meet these additional challenges, our sales could decrease and our operating expenses could increase. We are implementing substantial information systems changes in support of our business that might disrupt our operations. Our success depends on our ability to efficiently source, distribute and sell merchandise through our stores utilizing appropriate management information systems. We are in the process of implementing modifications to our technology that will involve updating or replacing our information systems with successor systems over the course of several years. There are inherent risks associated with replacing or modifying these systems, including supply chain disruptions that could affect our ability to deliver products to our stores in an efficient manner. In addition, in updating and replacing our systems, we may be unable to accurately capture and transfer data. We may be unable to successfully launch these new systems, the launch of these new systems could result in business disruptions or the actual cost may exceed the estimated cost of these new systems, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that successfully implemented new systems will deliver the expected value to us. Our ability to operate profitably is uncertain. Through much of our history, we have experienced net losses and negative cash flow from operations. As of January 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $99.0 million. Historically, we have increased our expenses significantly to expand our store base. We may not generate sufficient revenue to offset these expenditures and may incur losses that we would not incur if we developed our business more slowly. If our revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if our cost of goods sold or operating expenses exceed our expectations, our operating results would be harmed. Our business depends on our ability to meet our labor needs. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store managers, assistant managers, customer service representatives and store associates, who understand and appreciate our "We Live Outdoors" culture and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and 21 Table of Contents number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the retail industry is high. If we are unable to hire and retain sales associates capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and knowledge of our merchandise, our business could be materially adversely affected. Although none of our employees is currently covered by collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future, which could increase our labor costs. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay the planned openings of new stores. Any such delays, any material increases in employee turnover rates at existing stores or any increases in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer demands, including regional preferences, in a timely manner, our operating results could suffer. Our products appeal to consumers who regularly hunt, fish, camp and boat. The preferences of these consumers cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. In addition, due to different types of fish and game stocks and different weather conditions found in different markets, it is critical that our stores stock appropriate products for their markets. Our success depends on our ability to identify product trends in a variety of markets as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in these markets in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our products, our sales may decline significantly and we may face significant excess inventory of some products and missed opportunities for other products, which could harm our operating results. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers' information could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The increasing costs associated with information security—such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud—could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect customer and confidential information will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may not prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data even if we implement them. If any compromise of our information security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches or subject us to fines, penalties or litigation. We may be named in litigation, which may result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. We face legal risks in our business, including claims from disputes with our employees and our former employees and claims associated with general commercial disputes, product liability and other matters. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, as well as general and product liability insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. We may in the future be the target of litigation and this litigation may result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. 22 Table of Contents Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly. Changes in our comparable store sales results could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Among the factors that have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales are: competition, our new store openings, general and regional economic conditions, consumer trends and preferences, timing and effectiveness of promotional events, loss of key vendors, disruption to our supply chain, seasonality, natural disasters and adverse weather. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our comparable store sales over time. Our computer hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully manage inventory levels, largely depends upon the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, communicate customer information and aggregate daily sales, margin and promotional information. These systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: •fire, flood, tornado and other natural disasters; •power loss, computer system failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; •computer viruses; and •upgrades, installations of major software releases and integration with new systems. Any failure that causes an interruption in our systems processing could disrupt our operations and result in reduced sales. We have centralized the majority of our computer systems of the Retail segment in our corporate office. It is possible that an event or disaster at our corporate office could materially and adversely affect the performance of our company and the ability of each of our stores to operate efficiently. If any of our key vendors or manufacturers fails to supply us with merchandise or changes key business terms, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our sales could decline. We depend on merchandise purchased from our vendors and sourced from third-party manufacturers to obtain products for our stores. Our vendors and manufacturers could discontinue selling products to us at any time. The loss of any key vendor or manufacturer for any reason could limit our ability to offer products that our customers want to purchase. In addition, we believe many of our vendors obtain their products from China, Taiwan, Korea, Mexico and other foreign countries and we source products from third-party manufacturers in foreign countries. A vendor could discontinue selling to us products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or the vendor's control, including foreign government regulations, political or financial unrest, war, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, the outbreak of pandemics, disruption or delays in shipments, port security, changes in local economic conditions and other issues. In addition, to the extent that any foreign supplier utilizes labor or other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the U.S., we could be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity or otherwise. Changes in commercial practices of our key vendors or manufacturers, such as changes in vendor support and incentives or changes in credit or payment terms, could negatively impact our results. Our operating results could also suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a vendor or manufacturer who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a vendor or manufacturer providing equally appealing products. 23 Table of Contents We recently acquired Overton's and may pursue additional strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We recently acquired Overton's and we may from time to time acquire complementary businesses in the future. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store-operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired companies, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business, and its financial results, into ours may adversely affect our operating results. Risks associated with internet sales could adversely affect our business. Internet sales through our Direct segment are subject to numerous risks that could result in lower revenue, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, including: •operating problems, system failures and reliance on third party computer hardware/software providers; •rapid technological change, including a failure to offer new website functionality that customers favor or increases in software filters that may inhibit our ability to market our products through email messages; •extensive federal and state regulations, including liability for online content and violations of privacy laws; •credit card fraud; •risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, breaches of internet security or similar disruptions; •failure of telecommunications, power services or other necessary infrastructure resulting in website downtime, call center closure or other problems; and •failure to timely and accurately fulfill customer orders. There is no assurance that our internet operations will achieve sales and profitable growth. Risks associated with catalog sales could adversely affect our business. There are risks associated with our catalog sales channel that could result in lower revenue, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, including: •customer acceptance of our catalog presentations and lower than expected response rates; •increases in paper and printing costs, postage rates and other costs relating to our catalog mailings; •a failure in the timing of design, production or deliveries of catalogs; •failure to timely and accurately fulfill customer orders; •the implementation of government-mandated return policies that would require us to pay for all returns; •our inability to adequately replenish our customer database; and •the accuracy, breadth and depth of the information contained in our customer database so we can correctly analyze our mailing lists and maximize our customer targeting efforts. 24 Table of Contents In addition, catalog sales may decline as a result of customers switching from catalog purchases to internet purchases. Risks Related to Our Industry Competition in the outdoor products industry could limit our growth and harm our operating results. The retail market for outdoor products is highly fragmented and competitive, with competition increasing in recent periods. Our current and prospective competitors include many large companies that have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, most of our largest competitors have undertaken accelerated growth strategies. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: •large format entertainment-focused outdoor retailers, such as Bass Pro Shops and Cabela's; •other outdoor-focused chains, such as Sportsman's Warehouse; •catalog and internet-based retailers, such as Bass Pro Shops, Cabela's, and The Sportsman's Guide; •traditional sporting goods chains, such as Dick's Sporting Goods, The Sports Authority and Academy; •discount chains and mass merchants, such as Wal-Mart and Kmart; •ATV and boat dealers, local specialty stores and repair shops; and •marinas and marine supply stores, such as West Marine and Boater's World. Pressure from our competitors could require us to reduce our prices or increase our spending for advertising and promotion, which could erode our margins. Increased competition in markets in which we have stores or the adoption by competitors of innovative store formats, aggressive pricing strategies and retail sale methods, such as the internet, could cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims relating to our sale of outdoor equipment and firearms, and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages related to those claims. We may incur damages due to lawsuits relating to equipment that we sell. We may also be subject to lawsuits relating to the design, manufacture or sale of our owned-brand products. In addition, we sell and service rifles, shotguns and handguns, along with archery equipment, which are products that are associated with an increased risk of injury and death. We may incur damages due to lawsuits relating to the improper use of firearms sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from firearm manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of firearms. We may be subject to lawsuits relating to our performance of background checks on firearms purchasers as mandated by state and federal law. We also have sold boats and ATVs, which are motorized vehicles designed for off-road use. Lawsuits relating to these products could result in substantial liability, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. There is a risk that claims or liabilities relating to products we sell will exceed our insurance coverage and we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. In addition, the commencement of lawsuits against us relating to our sale of outdoor equipment or firearms could cause us to reduce our sales of those products. 25 Table of Contents Increased regulation of the sale of firearms could cause us to reduce our firearm sales, which could harm our operating results. Increased federal, state or local regulation, including taxation, of the sale of firearms in our current markets or in future markets in which we may operate could cause us to reduce our firearm sales or adversely affect our margins on these sales. Sales of firearms represent a significant percentage of our net sales and are critical in drawing customers to our stores. A substantial reduction in our sales or margins on sales of firearms due to the establishment of new regulations could harm our operating results. Some of the products and services we sell are highly regulated, which could lead to high compliance costs. We are subject to regulation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and similar state regulatory agencies. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is costly and these costs could increase in the future. If we fail to comply with government and industry safety standards, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, regulations issued by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives may delay our ability to change certain of our officers and prohibit some individuals from serving in certain of our offices. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Pratt family members, Erickson family members and their affiliates collectively own a controlling interest in our company and these individuals and entities may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders. Members of the Pratt family, the Erickson family and their affiliates collectively own a controlling interest in us through a combination of their individual stock ownership and their beneficial interest in certain entities that hold our shares. While neither the Pratt family nor the Erickson family, together with their respective affiliates, owns a controlling interest in our company, each of them owns in excess of 30% of our outstanding voting stock. As a result, these shareholders are able to individually influence and collectively control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may have interests that differ from or otherwise conflict with those of other shareholders and may vote in a way with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. No members of the Pratt family, the Erickson family or their affiliates are subject to any contractual obligations to retain their interests. Certain individual members of the Erickson family and certain of the entities described above have rights to cause us to register their shares. A sale by these shareholders of a large interest in us, or the perception that such a sale could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of the significant interest in our company held by the Pratt family, the Erickson family and their affiliates. Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of the significant ownership interests in us by the Pratt family, the Erickson family and their affiliates. David C. Pratt is the chairman of our board of directors and interim chief executive officer, and two members of our board of directors are members of the Erickson family, including Ronald Erickson, our vice chairman. We may face unavoidable conflicts of 26 Table of Contents interest when our board of directors faces decisions that affect both us and either Pratt family or Erickson family interests. We can issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common shareholders. Our articles of incorporation permit us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our shareholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of our company, depriving common shareholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. Certain provisions of Minnesota law may make a takeover of our company more difficult, depriving shareholders of opportunities to sell shares at above- market prices. Certain provisions of Minnesota law may have the effect of discouraging attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Section 302A.671 of the Minnesota statutes, with certain exceptions, requires approval of any acquisition of the beneficial ownership of 20%, 33.33% and 50% or more of our voting stock then outstanding by a majority vote of our shareholders prior to its consummation. In general, shares acquired in the absence of such approval are denied voting rights and are redeemable by us at their then-fair market value within 30 days after the acquiring person failed to give a timely information statement to us or the date the shareholders voted not to grant voting rights to the acquiring person's shares. Section 302A.673 of the Minnesota statutes generally prohibits any business combination by us, or any of our subsidiaries, with an interested shareholder, which includes any shareholder that purchases 10% or more of our voting shares within four years following such interested shareholder's share acquisition date, unless the business combination is approved by a committee of all of the disinterested members of our board of directors before the interested shareholder's share acquisition date. Consequently, our common shareholders may lose opportunities to sell their stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures. The price of our common stock is volatile. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates substantially. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. The factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of outdoor and sporting goods companies and other retail companies; •relatively few shares available for public trading; •actual or anticipated changes in our sales and earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or the failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; •investor perceptions of the outdoor products, sporting goods and marine industries, the retail industry in general and our company in particular; •the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; •general economic conditions and trends; •major catastrophic events; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; 27 Table of Contents •adverse weather conditions in our markets; •regulatory changes; •loss of external funding sources; •sales of large blocks of our stock or sales by insiders; or •departures of key personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 