ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We depend on ATM transaction fees for substantially all of our revenues, and our revenues would be reduced by a decline in the usage of our ATMs or a decline in the number of ATMs that we operate. Transaction fees charged to cardholders and their financial institutions for transactions processed on our ATMs, including surcharge and interchange transaction fees, have historically accounted for most of our revenues. We expect that ATM transaction fees, including fees we receive through our bank branding and surcharge-free network offerings, will continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, our future operating results will depend on (i) the continued market acceptance of our services in our target markets, (ii) maintaining the level of transaction fees we receive, (iii) our ability to install, acquire, operate, and retain more ATMs, (iv) continued usage of our ATMs by cardholders, and (v) our ability to continue to expand our surcharge-free offerings. Additionally, it is possible that alternative technologies to our ATM services will be developed and implemented. If such alternatives are successful, we will likely experience a decline in the usage of our ATMs. Moreover, surcharge fees are set by negotiation between us and our merchant partners and could change over time. Further, growth in surcharge-free ATM networks and widespread consumer bias toward such networks could adversely affect our revenues, even though we maintain our own surcharge-free offerings. We have also recently seen a decline in the average number of ATMs that we operate in the United States. Such decline, which totaled approximately 1.6% during the year ended December 31, 2007, exclusive of ATMs acquired in the 7-Eleven ATM Transaction, is primarily due to customer losses experienced in our merchant-owned ATM business, offset somewhat by new Company-owned ATM locations that were deployed during the year. The decline in ATMs on the merchant-owned side of the business totaled approximately 6.2% during the year ended December 31, 2007, and was due primarily to (i) an internal initiative launched by us to identify and eliminate certain underperforming accounts, (ii) increased competition from local and regional independent ATM service organizations, and (iii) certain network security upgrade requirements. We cannot assure you that our ATM transaction fees will not decline in the future. Accordingly, a decline in usage of our ATMs by ATM cardholders or in the levels of fees received by us in connection with such usage, or a decline in the number of ATMs that we operate, would have a negative impact on our revenues and would limit our future growth. In the United States, the proliferation of payment options other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, and stored-value cards, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. The U.S. has seen a shift in consumer payment trends since the late 1990’s, with more customers now opting for electronic forms of payment (e.g., credit cards and debit cards) for their in-store purchases over traditional paper-based forms of payment (e.g., cash and checks). Additionally, certain merchants are now offering free cash back at the point-of-sale for customers that utilize debit cards for their purchases, thus providing an additional incentive for consumers to use such cards. According to the Study of Consumer Payment Preferences for 2005/2006, as prepared by Dove Consulting and the American Bankers Association, paper-based forms of payment declined from approximately 57% of all in-store payments made in 1999 to 44% in 2005. While most of the increase in electronic forms of payment during this period came at the expense of traditional checks, the use of cash to fund in-store payments declined from 39% in 1999 to 33% in 2001. Although the use of cash has been relatively stable since that date (remaining at roughly 33% of all in-store payments through 2005), continued growth in electronic payment methods (most notably debit cards and stored-value cards) could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. 13 Table of Contents We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in three of the past five years and incurred a net loss of $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $30.4 million. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve profitability in the future. If we achieve profitability, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Interchange fees, which comprise a substantial portion of our ATM transaction revenues, may be lowered at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which our ATM transactions are routed, thus reducing our future revenues. Interchange fees, which represented approximately 27.8% and 26.2% of our total pro forma ATM operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are set by the various EFT networks through which our ATM transactions are routed. Accordingly, if such networks decided to lower the interchange rates paid to us for ATM transactions routed through their networks, our future ATM transaction revenues would decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from ATMs placed with a small number of merchants. If one or more of our top merchants were to cease doing business with us, or to substantially reduce its dealings with us, our revenues could decline. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we derived 45.4% and 46.0%, respectively, of our total pro forma revenues from ATMs placed at the locations of our five largest merchants. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our top five merchants (based on our total revenues) were 7-Eleven, CVS, Walgreens, Target, and ExxonMobil. 7-Eleven, which represents the single largest merchant customer in our portfolio, comprised 33.0% and 35.8% of our total pro forma revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, a significant percentage of our future revenues and operating income will be dependent upon the successful continuation of our relationship with 7-Eleven and these other four merchants. The loss of any of our largest merchants, or a decision by any one of them to reduce the number of our ATMs placed in their locations, would decrease our revenues. These merchants may elect not to renew their contracts when they expire. The contracts we have with our top five merchants, as outlined above, have expiration dates of July 20, 2017; December 5, 2011; December 31, 2013; January 31, 2012; and December 31, 2013, respectively. Even if such contracts are renewed, the renewal terms may be less favorable to us than the current contracts. If any of our five largest merchants fails to renew its contract upon expiration, or if the renewal terms with any of them are less favorable to us than under our current contracts, it could result in a decline in our revenues and gross profits. A substantial portion of our future revenues and operating profits will be generated by the new 7-Eleven merchant relationship. Accordingly, if 7-Eleven’s financial condition deteriorates in the future and it is required to close some or all of its store locations, or if our ATM placement agreement with 7-Eleven expires or is terminated, our future financial results would be significantly impaired. 7-Eleven is now the single largest merchant customer in our portfolio, representing 33.0% and 35.8% of our total pro forma revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, a significant percentage of our future revenues and operating income will be dependent upon the successful continuation of our relationship with 7-Eleven. If 7-Eleven’s financial condition were to deteriorate in the future and, as a result, it was required to close a significant number of its domestic store locations, our financial results would be significantly impacted. Additionally, while the underlying ATM placement agreement with 7-Eleven has an initial term of 10 years, we may not be successful in renewing such agreement with 7-Eleven upon the end of that initial term, or such renewal may occur with terms and conditions that are not as favorable to us as those contained in the current agreement. Furthermore, the ATM placement agreement executed with 7-Eleven contains certain terms and conditions that, if we fail to meet 14 Table of Contents such terms and conditions, gives 7-Eleven the right to terminate the placement agreement or our exclusive right to provide certain services. We rely on EFT network providers, transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers; if they fail or no longer agree to provide their services, we could suffer a temporary loss of transaction revenues or the permanent loss of any merchant contract affected by such disruption. We rely on EFT network providers and have agreements with transaction processors, armored courier providers, and maintenance providers and have more than one such provider in each of these key areas. These providers enable us to provide card authorization, data capture, settlement, and ATM cash management and maintenance services to the merchants we serve. Typically, these agreements are for periods of up to two or three years each. If we improperly manage the renewal or replacement of any expiring vendor contract, or if our multiple providers in any one key area failed to provide the services for which we have contracted and disruption of service to our merchants occurs, our relationship with those merchants could suffer. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2007, our results of operations were negatively impacted by a higher percentage of downtime experienced by our ATMs in the United Kingdom as a result of certain third-party service-related issues and, while we expect such service-related issues to be resolved during the 2008, it is likely that such issues will continue to negatively impact the operating results of our United Kingdom operations in the near-term. If such disruption of service is significant or continues longer than anticipated, our relationships with the affected merchants could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, any disruptions in service in any of our markets, whether caused by us or by third party providers, may result in a loss of revenues under certain of our contractual arrangements that contain minimum service-level requirements. If we, our transaction processors, our EFT networks or other service providers experience system failures, the ATM products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which would harm our business. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our in-house transaction processing platform, third-party transaction processors, telecommunications network systems, and other service providers. Accordingly, any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenue. Additionally, if any such interruption is caused by us, especially in those situations in which we serve as the primary transaction processor, such interruption could result in the loss of the affected merchants or damage our relationships with such merchants. Our systems and operations and those of our transaction processors and our EFT network and other service providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. We cannot be certain that any measures we and our service providers have taken to prevent system failures will be successful or that we will not experience service interruptions. If not done properly, the transitioning of our ATMs from third-party processors to our own in-house transaction processing platform could lead to service interruptions and/or the inaccurate settlement of funds between the various parties to our ATM transactions, which would harm our business and our relationships with our merchants. As of December 31, 2007, we had transitioned over 13,000 of our Company- and merchant-owned ATMs from third-party processors to our own in-house transaction processing platform, and we expect to have the remainder of the ATMs in our portfolio converted over by December 31, 2008. Historically, we had limited experience in ATM transaction processing and, therefore, hired additional personnel with experience in running an ATM transaction processing operation during 2006 and 2007, including personnel we hired in connection with the 7-Eleven ATM Transaction. Because this is a relatively new business for us, there is an increased risk that our processing conversion efforts will not be successful, thus resulting in service interruptions for our merchants. Furthermore, if not performed properly, the processing of transactions conducted on our ATMs could result in the inaccurate settlement of funds between the various parties to those transactions and expose us to increased liability. 15 Table of Contents Security breaches could harm our business by compromising customer information and disrupting our ATM transaction processing services, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. As part of our ATM transaction processing services, we electronically process, store, and transmit sensitive cardholder information utilizing our ATMs. In recent years, companies that process and maintain such cardholder information have been specifically and increasingly targeted by sophisticated criminal organizations in an effort to obtain such information and utilize it for fraudulent transactions. Unauthorized access to our computer systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could result in the theft or publication of such information or the deletion or modification of sensitive records, and could cause interruptions in our operations. While such security risks are mitigated by the use of encryption techniques, any inability to prevent security breaches could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. Computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our ATM transaction processing services, causing non-compliance with network rules and damaging our relationships with our merchant customers. Computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, thus disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Although we utilize several preventative and detective security controls in our network, any inability to prevent computer viruses could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and cause us to be in non-compliance with applicable network rules and regulations. Operational failures in our ATM transaction processing facilities could harm our business and our relationships with our merchant customers. An operational failure in our ATM transaction processing facilities could harm our business and damage our relationships with our merchant customers. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ATM processing services could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and could cause us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. We have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or react to such disruptions. However, a prolonged interruption of our services or network that extends for more than several hours (i.e., where our backup systems are not able to recover) could result in data loss or a reduction in revenues as our ATMs would be unable to process transactions. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential merchant customers to choose alternative ATM service providers. Errors or omissions in the settlement of merchant funds could damage our relationships with our merchant customers and expose us to liability. We are responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for our merchant customers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. This process relies on accurate and authorized maintenance of electronic records. Although we have certain controls in place to help ensure the safety and accuracy of our records, errors or unauthorized changes to these records could result in the erroneous or fraudulent movement of funds, thus damaging our relationships with our merchant customers and exposing us to liability. We rely on third parties to provide us with the cash we require to operate many of our ATMs. If these third parties were unable or unwilling to provide us with the necessary cash to operate our ATMs, we would need to locate alternative sources of cash to operate our ATMs or we would not be able to operate our business. In the United States, we rely on agreements with Bank of America, PDNB, and Wells Fargo to provide us with the cash that we use in approximately 18,000 of our domestic ATMs where cash is not provided by the merchant (“vault cash”). In the United Kingdom, we rely on a vault cash agreement with ALCB to provide us with the cash that we use in approximately 2,000 of our U.K. ATMs where cash is not provided by the merchant. Finally, Bansi is our sole vault cash provider in Mexico and provides us with the cash that we use 16 Table of Contents in approximately 900 of our Mexico ATMs. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of vault cash held in our U.S, U.K., and Mexican ATMs was approximately $850.4 million, $196.8 million, and $10.1 million, respectively. Under our vault cash agreements, we pay a vault cash rental fee based on the total amount of vault cash that we are using at any given time. At all times during this process, legal and equitable title to the cash is held by the cash providers, and we have no access or right to the cash. Each provider has the right to demand the return of all or any portion of its cash at any time upon the occurrence of certain events beyond our control, including certain bankruptcy events of us or our subsidiaries, or a breach of the terms of our cash provider agreements. Our current agreements with Bank of America and Wells Fargo expire in October 2009 and July 2009, respectively. However, Bank of America can terminate its agreement with us upon 360 days prior written notice, and Wells Fargo can terminate its agreement with us upon 180 days prior written notice. Additionally, while our current agreement with ALCB does not expire until January 2009, it contains certain provisions, which, if triggered, may allow ALCB to terminate its agreement with us and demand the return of its cash upon 180 days prior written notice. We are working on extending our agreement with Bansi, which currently expires in March 2009. If our cash providers were to demand return of their cash or terminate their arrangements with us and remove their cash from our ATMs, or if they were to fail to provide us with cash as and when we need it for our ATM operations, our ability to operate these ATMs would be jeopardized, and we would need to locate alternative sources of cash in order to operate these ATMs. The recent deterioration experienced in global credit markets could have a negative impact on financial institutions that we conduct business with. We have a significant number of customer and vendor relationships with financial institutions in all of our key markets, including relationships in which those financial institutions pay us for the right to place their brands on our ATMs. Additionally, we rely on a select few financial institution partners to provide us with the vast majority of the cash that we maintain in our Company-owned ATMs. While we have not experienced any significant changes in our relationships with such financial institutions to date, and do not expect any deterioration, the continued turmoil seen in the global credit markets could have a negative impact on those financial institutions and our relationships. In particular, if the liquidity positions of the financial institutions with whom we conduct business deteriorate significantly, such institutions may be unable to perform under their existing agreements with us. In the case of our financial institution branding partners, we would likely be required to find alternative financial institutions to brand the ATMs negatively impacted by any contractual defaults that may result from a continued deterioration in global credit markets. If such defaults were to occur, we can provide no guarantee that we would be successful in our efforts to identify new branding partners, or that the underlying economics of any new branding arrangements would be consistent with our current branding arrangements. Furthermore, the current credit environment may make it more difficult for us to negotiate new branding arrangements with financial institutions, or to renew or extend existing branding arrangements on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. With respect to our vault cash providers, reference is made to the risk factor included immediately above for the potential impact on our business if our financial institution partners were no longer able to meet our ATM vault cash needs. Changes in interest rates could increase our operating costs by increasing interest expense under our credit facilities and our vault cash rental costs. Interest on our outstanding indebtedness under our revolving and swing line credit facilities is based on floating interest rates, and our vault cash rental expense is based on market rates of interest. As a result, our interest expense and cash management costs are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Vault cash is the cash we use in our machines in cases where cash is not provided by the merchant. We pay rental fees on the average amount of vault cash outstanding in our ATMs under floating rate formulas based on the LIBOR to Bank of America and PDNB in the U.S. and ALCB in the U.K., and based on the federal funds effective rate to Wells Fargo in the U.S. Additionally, in Mexico, we pay a monthly rental fee to our vault cash provider under a formula based on the Mexican Interbank Rate. Although we currently hedge a significant portion of 17 Table of Contents our vault cash interest rate risk related to our domestic operations through December 31, 2012, including a portion of the vault cash associated with the 7-Eleven ATM Transaction, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements for similar amounts in the future. Furthermore, we have not currently entered into any derivative financial instruments to hedge our variable interest rate exposure in the U.K. or Mexico. Any significant future increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow by increasing our operating costs and expenses. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Disclosure about Market Risk; Interest Rate Risk. We maintain a significant amount of cash within our Company-owned ATMs, which is subject to potential loss due to theft or other events, including natural disasters. As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $1.1 billion in vault cash held in our domestic and international ATMs. Although legal and equitable title to such cash is held by the cash providers, any loss of such cash from our ATMs through theft or other means is typically our responsibility. While we maintain insurance to cover a significant portion of any losses that may be sustained by us as a result of such events, we are still required to fund a portion of such losses through the payment of the related deductible amounts under our insurance policies. Furthermore, any increase in the frequency and/or amounts of such thefts and losses could negatively impact our operating results as a result of higher deductible payments and increased insurance premiums. Additionally, any damage sustained to our merchant customers’ store locations in connection with any ATM-related thefts, if extensive and frequent enough in nature, could negatively impact our relationships with such merchants and impair our ability to deploy additional ATMs in those locations (or new locations) with those merchants in the future. Finally, impacted merchants may request that we permanently remove ATMs from store locations that have suffered damage as a result of any ATM-related thefts, thus negatively impacting our financial results. The ATM industry is highly competitive and such competition may increase, which may adversely affect our profit margins. The ATM business is and can be expected to remain highly competitive. While our principal competition comes from national and regional financial institutions, we also compete with other independent ATM companies in the United States and the United Kingdom. Several of our competitors, namely national financial institutions, are larger, more established, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our competitors could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our ATMs, cause us to reduce the surcharge revenue generated by transactions at our ATMs, or cause us to pay higher merchant fees, thereby reducing our profits. In addition to our current competitors, additional competitors may enter the market. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these current and future competitors. Increased competition could result in transaction fee reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. In the United Kingdom, we face competition from several companies with operations larger than our own. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than our U.K. subsidiary. The election of our merchant customers to not participate in our surcharge-free network offerings could impact the networks’ effectiveness, which would negatively impact our financial results. Financial institutions that are members of our Allpoint and MasterCard surcharge-free networks pay a fee in exchange for allowing their cardholders to use selected Cardtronics owned and/or managed ATMs on a surcharge-free basis. The success of these networks is dependent upon the participation by our merchant customers in such networks. In the event a significant number of our merchants elect not to participate in such networks, the benefits and effectiveness of the networks would be diminished, thus potentially causing some of the participating financial institutions to not renew their agreements with us, and thereby negatively impacting our financial results. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to integrate our recent and future acquisitions in an efficient manner and inefficiencies would increase our cost of operations and reduce our profitability. Our acquisitions involve certain inherent risks to our business, including the following: • the operations, technology, and personnel of any acquired companies may be difficult to integrate; • the allocation of management resources to consummate these transactions may disrupt our day-to-day business; and • acquired networks may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow. Such a shortfall could require us to write down the carrying value of the intangible assets associated with any acquired company, which would adversely affect our reported earnings. Since April 2001, we have acquired 14 ATM networks and one surcharge-free ATM network. Prior to our E*TRADE Access acquisition in June 2004, we had acquired only the assets of deployed ATM networks, rather than businesses and their related infrastructure. We currently anticipate that our future acquisitions will likely reflect a mix of asset acquisitions and acquisitions of businesses, with each acquisition having its own set of unique characteristics. To the extent that we elect to acquire an existing company or the operations, technology, and personnel of another ATM provider, we may assume some or all of the liabilities associated with the acquired company and face new and added challenges integrating such acquisition into our operations. Any inability on our part to effectively manage our past or future growth could limit our ability to successfully grow the revenue and profitability of our business. Our international operations involve special risks and may not be successful, which would result in a reduction of our gross profits. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 10.8% of our ATMs were located in the United Kingdom and Mexico. Those ATMs contributed the following to our gross profit measures for the year ended December 31, 2007: • 22.7% of our gross profits exclusive of depreciation, accretion, and amortization; • 18.5% of our pro forma gross profits exclusive of depreciation, accretion, and amortization; • 23.4% of our gross profits inclusive of depreciation, accretion, and amortization; and • 18.2% of our pro forma gross profits inclusive of depreciation, accretion, and amortization. We expect to continue to expand in the U.K. and Mexico and potentially into other countries as opportunities arise. Our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including: • exposure to currency fluctuations, including the risk that our future reported operating results could be negatively impacted by unfavorable movements in the functional currencies of our international operations relative to the United States dollar, which represents our consolidated reporting currency; • difficulties in complying with the different laws and regulations in each country and jurisdiction in which we operate, including unique labor and reporting laws; • unexpected changes in laws, regulations, and policies of foreign governments or other regulatory bodies, including changes that could potentially disallow surcharging or that could result in a reduction in the amount of interchange fees received per transaction; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including hiring and retaining skilled workers in those countries in which we operate; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of foreign earnings. 19 Table of Contents Any of these factors could reduce the profitability and revenues derived from our international operations and international expansion. Our proposed expansion efforts into new international markets involve unique risks and may not be successful. We currently plan to expand our operations internationally with a focus on high growth emerging markets, such as those in the Central and Eastern Europe, Central and South America, and Asia-Pacific regions. Because the off-premise ATM industry is relatively undeveloped in these emerging markets, we may not be successful in these expansion efforts. In particular, many of these markets do not currently employ or support an off-premise ATM surcharging model, meaning that we would have to rely on interchange fees as our primary source of revenue. While we have had some success in deploying non-surcharging ATMs in selected markets (most notably in the United Kingdom), such a model requires significant transaction volumes to make it economically feasible to purchase and deploy ATMs. Furthermore, most of the ATMs in these markets are owned and operated by financial institutions, thus increasing the risk that cardholders would be unwilling to utilize an off-premise ATM with an unfamiliar brand. Finally, the regulatory environments in many of these markets are evolving and unpredictable, thus increasing the risk that a particular deployment model chosen at inception may not be economically viable in the future. We operate in a changing and unpredictable regulatory environment. If we are subject to new legislation regarding the operation of our ATMs, we could be required to make substantial expenditures to comply with that legislation, which may reduce our net income and our profit margins. With its initial roots in the banking industry, the U.S. ATM industry has always been regulated, if not by individual states, then by the rules and regulations of the federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act, which establishes the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of participants in EFT systems. The vast majority of states have few, if any, licensing requirements. However, legislation related to the U.S. ATM industry is periodically proposed at the state and local level. To date, no such legislation has been enacted that materially adversely affects our business. In the United Kingdom, the ATM industry is largely self-regulating. Most ATMs are part of the LINK network and must operate under the network rules set forth by LINK, including complying with rules regarding required signage and screen messages. Additionally, legislation is proposed from time-to-time at the national level, though nothing to date has been enacted that materially affects our business. Finally, the ATM industry in Mexico has been historically operated by financial institutions. Banco de Mexico supervises and regulates ATM operations of both financial institutions and non-bank ATM deployers. Although, Banco de Mexico’s regulations permit surcharge fees to be charged in ATM transactions, it has not issued specific regulations for the provision of ATM services. In addition, in order for a non-bank ATM deployer to provide ATM services in Mexico, the deployer must be affiliated with PROSA-RED or E-Global, which are credit card and debit card proprietary networks that transmit information and settle ATM transactions between its participants. As only financial institutions are allowed to be participants of PROSA-RED or E-Global, Cardtronics Mexico entered into a joint venture with Bansi, who is a member of PROSA-RED. As a financial institution, Bansi and all entities in which it participates, including Cardtronics Mexico, are regulated by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (“Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público”) and supervised by the Banking and Securities Commission (“Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores”). Additionally, Cardtronics Mexico is subject to the provisions of the Ley del Banco de Mexico (Law of Banco de Mexico), the Ley de Instituciones de Crédito (Mexican Banking Law), and the Ley para la Transparencia y Ordenamiento de los Servicios Financieros (Law for the Transparency and Organization of Financial Services). We will continue to monitor all such legislation and attempt, to the extent possible, to prevent the passage of such laws that we believe are needlessly burdensome or unnecessary. If regulatory legislation is passed in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we could be required to make substantial expenditures which would reduce our net income. 20 Table of Contents The passing of legislation banning or limiting surcharge fees would severely impact our revenue. Despite the nationwide acceptance of surcharge fees at ATMs, consumer activists have from time to time attempted to impose local bans or limits on surcharge fees. Even in the few instances where these efforts have passed the local governing body (such as with an ordinance adopted by the city of Santa Monica, California), federal courts have overturned these local laws on federal preemption grounds. However, those efforts may resurface and, should the federal courts abandon their adherence to the federal preemption doctrine, those efforts could receive more favorable consideration than in the past. Any successful legislation banning or limiting surcharge fees could result in a substantial loss of revenues and significantly curtail our ability to continue our operations as currently configured. In the United Kingdom, the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons published a report regarding surcharges in the ATM industry in March 2005. This committee was formed to investigate public concerns regarding the ATM industry, including (1) adequacy of disclosure to ATM customers regarding surcharges, (2) whether ATM providers should be required to provide free services in low-income areas and (3) whether to limit the level of surcharges. While the committee made numerous recommendations to Parliament regarding the ATM industry, including that ATMs should be subject to the Banking Code (a voluntary code of practice adopted by all financial institutions in the U.K.), the U.K. government did not accept the committee’s recommendations. Despite the rejection of the committee’s recommendations, the U.K. government did sponsor an ATM task force to look at social exclusion in relation to ATM services. As a result of the task force’s findings, approximately 600 additional free-to-use ATMs (to be provided by multiple ATM providers) were required to be installed in low income areas throughout the U.K. While this is less than a 2% increase in free-to-use ATMs through the U.K., there is no certainty that other similar proposals will not be made and accepted in the future. If the legislature or another body with regulatory authority in the U.K. were to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in the U.K. would be negatively impacted. In Mexico, surcharging for off-premise ATMs was legalized in late 2003, but was not formally implemented until July 2005. As such, the charging of fees to consumers to utilize off-premise ATMs is a relatively new experience in Mexico. Accordingly, it is too soon to predict whether public concerns over surcharging will surface in Mexico. However, if such concerns were to be raised, and if the applicable legislative or regulatory bodies in Mexico decided to impose limits on the level of surcharges for ATM transactions, our revenue from operations in Mexico would be negatively impacted. The passing of legislation requiring modifications to be made to ATMs could severely impact our cash flows. Under a current ruling of the U.S. District Court, it was determined that the United States’ currencies (as currently designed) violate the Rehabilitation Act, as the paper currencies issued by the U.S. are identical in size and color, regardless of denomination. Under the ruling, the U.S. Treasury Department has been ordered to develop ways in which to differentiate paper currency such that an individual who is visually-impaired would be able to distinguish between the different denominations. While it is still uncertain at this time what the outcome of the appeals process will be, in the event the current ruling is not overturned, participants in the ATM industry (including us) could be forced to incur significant costs to upgrade current machines’ hardware and software components. If required, such capital expenditures could limit our free cash such that we do not have enough cash available for the execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs, or other purposes. The passing of anti-money laundering legislation could cause us to lose certain merchant accounts and reduce our revenues. Recent concerns by the U.S. federal government regarding the use of ATMs to launder money could lead to the imposition of additional regulations on our sponsoring financial institutions and our merchant customers regarding the source of cash loaded into their ATMs. In particular, such regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs by individual merchants who load their own cash, thereby making their ATMs 21 Table of Contents less profitable. Accordingly, some individual merchants may decide to discontinue their ATM operations, thus reducing the number of merchant-owned accounts that we currently manage. If such a reduction were to occur, we would see a corresponding decrease in our revenues. In connection with the 7-Eleven ATM Transaction, we acquired advanced-functionality Vcom machines with significant potential for providing new services. Failure to achieve market acceptance among users could lead to continued losses from the Vcom Services, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the 7-Eleven ATM Transaction, we acquired approximately 5,500 ATM machines, including 2,000 advanced-functionality Vcom machines. The advanced functionalities provided by the Vcom machines include check cashing, money transfer, remote deposit capture, and bill payment services (collectively, the “Vcom Services”). Additional growth opportunities that we believe to be associated with the acquisition of Vcom machines, including the expansion of such services to our existing ATMs, may be impaired if we cannot achieve market acceptance among users of those services. We have estimated that the Vcom Services generated an operating loss of $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and an operating profit of $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. However, excluding upfront placement fees, which may not continue in the future, the Vcom Services generated operating losses of $10.6 million and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For the period from our acquisition (July 20, 2007) through December 31, 2007, the Vcom Services generated an operating loss of $5.0 million. By continuing to provide the Vcom Services, we currently expect that we may incur up to $10.0 million in operating losses associated with such services for the first 12-18 months subsequent to the 7-Eleven ATM Transaction. We plan to continue to operate the Vcom units and restructure the Vcom operations to improve the financial results of such operations; however, we may be unsuccessful in those efforts, and the future losses associated with the acquired Vcom operations could be significantly higher than those currently estimated, which would negatively impact our future operating results and financial condition. In addition, in the event we decide to terminate the Vcom Services, we may be required to pay up to $1.2 million of contract termination payments, and may incur additional costs and expenses, which could negatively impact our future operating results and financial condition. Finally, to the extent we pursue future advanced-functionality services independent of our Vcom efforts, we can provide no assurance that such efforts will be profitable. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses, if not corrected, could affect the reliability of our financial statements and have other adverse consequences. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the SEC rules with respect thereto, require management of public companies to assess the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting annually and to include in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K a management report on that assessment. To that end, our management assessment as of December 31, 2007 has been reflected in Part II, Item 9A (T). Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, because we are currently a non-accelerated filer, as defined by the SEC, we are not required to include an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. Under Section 404 and the SEC’s rules, a company cannot find that its internal control over financial reporting is effective if any “material weaknesses” exist in its controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. We have taken, and will continue to take, actions to remediate the material weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to correct these material weaknesses by the end of 2008. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal 22 Table of Contents control over financial reporting, if it results in misstatements in our financial statements, could have a material effect on financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, and could negatively impact investor perceptions. Our operating results have fluctuated historically and could continue to fluctuate in the future, which could affect our ability to maintain our current market position or expand. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions in the ATM and financial services industries; • changes in payment trends and offerings in the markets in which we operate; • competition from other companies providing the same or similar services that we offer; • the timing and magnitude of operating expenses, capital expenditures, and expenses related to the expansion of sales, marketing, and operations, including as a result of acquisitions, if any; • the timing and magnitude of any impairment charges that may materialize over time relating to our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets; • changes in the general level of interest rates in the markets in which we operate; • changes in regulatory requirements associated with the ATM and financial services industries; • changes in the mix of our current services; and • changes in the financial condition and credit risk of our customers. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues in recent quarters, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and interest expense. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We have a large amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and are required to perform periodic assessments for any possible impairment for accounting purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $366.1 million, or 61.9% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate the recoverability and the amortization period of our intangible assets under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). Some of the factors that we consider to be important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include the performance of the related assets relative to the expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. These factors, assumptions, and any changes in them could result in an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. In the event we determine our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements, which would negatively impact our results of operations and that impact could be material. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recorded approximately $5.7 million and $2.8 million of impairment charges related to certain previously-acquired merchant contracts. Other impairment charges in the future may also adversely affect our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $310.7 million, which represents approximately 74.4% of our total capitalization of $417.9 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, and adverse changes in government regulation; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs, or other purposes; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. The terms of our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes include a number of covenants that, among other items, restrict our ability to: • sell or transfer property or assets; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; • merge into or consolidate with any third party; • create, incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create certain liens; • make investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • issue or sell preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we are required by our credit agreement to maintain specified financial ratios and limit the amount of capital expenditures incurred in any given 12-month period. As a result of these ratios and limits, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. A failure to comply with the covenants or financial ratios could result in an event of default. In the event of a default 24 Table of Contents under our credit agreement, the lenders could exercise a number of remedies, some of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the senior subordinated notes. An acceleration of indebtedness under our credit agreement would also likely result in an event of default under the terms of any other financing arrangement we have outstanding at the time. If any or all of our debt were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay any such indebtedness in full. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings under our bank credit facility when due the lenders will have the right to proceed against the collateral securing such indebtedness. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing Facilities for an additional discussion of our financing instruments. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 