Item 1A. Risk Factors. Any investment in our company will be subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In that case, holders of our securities may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Specific to Our Company The packaged food industry is highly competitive. The packaged food industry is highly competitive. Numerous brands and products, including private label products, compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily on product quality, convenience, price, trade promotion, brand recognition and loyalty, customer service, effective consumer advertising and promotional activities and the ability to identify and satisfy emerging consumer preferences. We compete with a significant number of companies of varying sizes, including divisions or subsidiaries of larger companies. Many of these competitors have multiple product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources available to them and may have lower fixed costs and/or are substantially less leveraged than our company. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully with these companies or if competitive pressures or other factors cause our products to lose market share or result in significant price erosion, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to maintain our profitability in the face of a consolidating retail environment. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for 10.4% of our fiscal 2006 net sales and our ten largest customers together accounted for approximately 43.6% of our fiscal 2006 net sales. As the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger and become more sophisticated, our retail customers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, these customers are reducing their inventories and increasing their emphasis on private label products. If we fail to use our marketing expertise and unique products and category leadership positions to respond to these trends, or if we lower our prices or increase promotional support of our products and are unable to increase the volume of our products sold, our profitability may be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain our key management personnel, our growth and future success may be impaired and our results of operations could suffer as a result. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior management, certain of whom would be difficult to replace. As a result, departure by members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. 10 Most of our food product categories are mature and certain categories have experienced declining consumption rates from time to time. We may be unable to offset any reduction in, or increase, net sales in these categories through an increase in trade spending for these categories or an increase in net sales in other categories If consumption rates and sales in our mature food product categories continue to decline, our revenue and operating income may be adversely affected, and we may not be able to offset this decrease in business with increased trade spending or an increase in sales or profitability of other products and product categories. We may have difficulties integrating recent or future acquisitions or identifying new acquisition. We acquired the Cream of Wheat and Cream of Rice brands in February 2007 and we may pursue additional acquisitions of food product lines and businesses. However, we may be unable to identify additional acquisitions or may be unable to successfully integrate and manage the product lines or businesses that we have recently acquired or that we may acquire in the future. In addition, we may be unable to achieve a substantial portion of any anticipated cost savings from recent or future acquisitions or other anticipated benefits in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. In addition, any acquired product lines or businesses may require a greater amount of trade, promotional and capital spending than we anticipate. Historically, we have grown net sales for some but not all of the brands we have acquired. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, personnel turnover and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Any inability by us to integrate and manage any acquired product lines or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, any inability to achieve a substantial portion of any anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the time frame we anticipate or any unanticipated required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Moreover, future acquisitions by us could result in our incurring substantial additional indebtedness, being exposed to contingent liabilities or incurring the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the supply and price of raw materials and labor, manufacturing and other costs, and we may not be able to offset increasing costs by increasing prices to our customers. We purchase agricultural products, meat and poultry, other raw materials and packaging supplies from growers, commodity processors, other food companies and packaging manufacturers. While all such materials are available from numerous independent suppliers, raw materials and packaging supplies are subject to fluctuations in price attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, federal and state agricultural programs, export demand, energy and fuel costs, weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons, insects, plant diseases and fungi, and glass and metal prices. Although we enter into advance commodities purchase agreements from time to time, these contracts do not protect us from all increases in raw material costs. In addition, the cost of labor, manufacturing, energy, fuel, packaging materials, pork and chicken and other costs related to the production and distribution of our food products have risen in recent years, and we believe that they may continue to rise in the foreseeable future. If the cost of labor, raw materials or manufacturing or other costs of production and distribution of our food products continue to increase, and we are unable to fully offset these increases by raising prices or other measures, our profitability and financial condition could be negatively impacted. We rely on co-packers for a significant portion of our manufacturing needs, and the inability to enter into additional or future co-packing agreements may result in our failure to meet customer demand. We rely upon co-packers for a significant portion of our manufacturing needs. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform. We believe that there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were required 11 to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Our inability to enter into satisfactory co-packing agreements could limit our ability to implement our business plan or meet customer demand. The loss of our exclusive license with Emeril’s Food of Love Productions, L.L.C. or events or rumors relating to the Emeril’s brand could adversely impact our operating results. The value of our license agreement with Emeril’s Food of Love Productions, L.L.C. (EFLP) depends in large part on the reputation and integrity of Emeril Lagasse, under whose name the Emeril’s products are marketed. Mr. Lagasse is a widely recognized chef who currently enjoys celebrity status for his ability to prepare gourmet foods. Consumer and customer recognition of Mr. Lagasse and the Emeril’s brand and the association of this brand with safe and high quality food products form an integral part of our Emeril’s products. Should Mr. Lagasse’s popularity decline, or should our license with EFLP be lost or compromised for any reason, our operating results could be adversely impacted. In addition, EFLP may terminate the license agreement at any point if we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement. We rely on the performance of major retailers, wholesalers, specialty distributors and mass merchants for the success of our business, and should they perform poorly or give higher priority to other brands or products, our business could be adversely affected. We sell our products principally to retail outlets and wholesale distributors including, traditional supermarkets, food service outlets, mass merchants, warehouse clubs, non-food outlets and specialty food distributors. The replacement by or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or chains or our inability to collect accounts receivable from our customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers offer branded and private label products that compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that our customers may give higher priority to their own products or to the products of our competitors. In the future, our customers may not continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing tastes, dietary habits and product packaging preferences of consumers in the market categories in which we compete. If we are not able to anticipate, identify or develop and market products that respond to these changes in consumer preferences, demand for our products may decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs related to developing and marketing new products or expanding our existing product lines in reaction to what we perceive to be increased consumer preference or demand. Such development or marketing may not result in the volume of sales or profitability anticipated. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters can affect crop supplies and reduce our operating results. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes or pestilence, may affect the supply of the raw materials that we use for our products. Our maple syrup products, for instance, are particularly susceptible to severe freezing conditions in Quebec, Canada and Vermont during the season in which maple syrup is produced. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies. If our supplies of raw materials are reduced, we may not be able to find supplemental supply sources on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 12 We are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials, substances and waste used in or resulting from our operations. Liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters could have a significant negative impact on our business. As with other companies engaged in similar businesses, the nature of our operations expose us to the risk of liabilities and claims with respect to environmental matters, including those relating to the disposal and release of hazardous substances. Furthermore, our operations are governed by laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health which, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous chemicals in the workplace. Any material costs incurred in connection with such liabilities or claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Any environmental or health and safety legislation or regulations enacted in the future, or any changes in how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted may lead to an increase in compliance costs or expose us to additional risk of liabilities and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, exposing us to potential claims and compliance costs that could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and other national, state and local authorities. For example, we are subject to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the FDA. This comprehensive regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of foods. Under this program the FDA regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current “good manufacturing practices” regulations and specifies the recipes for certain foods. Furthermore, our processing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by federal, state and local authorities. Any changes in these laws and regulations could increase the cost of developing and distributing our products and otherwise increase the cost of conducting our business, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including future laws and regulations, could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation.” Failure by third-party co-packers to comply with environmental or other regulations may disrupt our supply of certain products and adversely affect our business. We rely on co-packers to produce certain of our products. Such co-packers, whether in the United States or outside the United States, are subject to a number of regulations, including environmental regulations. Failure by any of our co-packers to comply with regulations, or allegations of compliance failure, may disrupt their operations. Disruption of the operations of a co-packer could disrupt our supply of product, which could have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, actions we may take to mitigate the impact of any such disruption or potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential production interruption, may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling or transportation phases of production. We have from time 13 to time been involved in product liability lawsuits, none of which have been material to our business. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a health-related illness in the future we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused injury, illness or death could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe to be adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. Furthermore, our products could potentially suffer from product tampering, contamination or spoilage or be mislabeled or otherwise damaged. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall products, leading to a material adverse effect on our business. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims might be asserted against us. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Consumer concern regarding the safety and quality of food products or health concerns could adversely affect sales of certain of our products. If consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness with respect to the food products they buy. The food industry is also subject to scrutiny relating to genetically modified organisms and the health implications of obesity. We have been and will continue to be impacted by publicity concerning the health implications of our products, which could negatively influence consumer perception and acceptance of our products and marketing programs. Developments in any of these areas could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be projected. Risk associated with foreign suppliers and co-packers, including changes in import/export duties, wage rates, political or economic climates, or exchange rates, may adversely affect our operations. Our relationships with foreign suppliers and co-packers subject us to the risks of doing business outside the United States. The countries from which we source our products may be subject to political and economic instability, and may periodically enact new or revise existing laws, taxes, duties, quotas, tariffs, currency controls or other restrictions to which we are subject. Our products are subject to import duties and other restrictions, and the United States government may periodically impose new or revise existing duties, quotas, tariffs or other restrictions to which we are subject. In addition, changes in respective wage rates among the countries from which we and our competitors source product could substantially impact our competitive position. Changes in exchange rates, import/export duties or relative international wage rates applicable to us or our competitors could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes may impact us in a different manner than our competitors. Litigation regarding our trademarks and any other proprietary rights and intellectual property infringement claims may have a significant negative impact on our business. We own 113 trademarks that are registered in the United States, 29 trademarks that are registered with certain U.S. states and Puerto Rico, and 405 trademarks that are registered in foreign countries. In addition, we have 13 trademark applications pending in the United States and foreign countries. We consider our trademarks to be of significant importance in our business. If the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequate to prevent imitation of our 14 products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as an alleged violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights, it may be necessary for us to initiate or enter into litigation in the future to enforce our trademark rights or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal proceedings could result in an adverse determination that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our financial well-being could be jeopardized by unforeseen changes in our employees’ collective bargaining agreements or shifts in union policy. As of December 30, 2006, approximately 284 of our 721 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 56 of our employees at our Roseland, New Jersey facility were covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen & Helpers of America (Local No. 863), scheduled to expire on March 31, 2009. Approximately 137 of our employees at our Portland and Biddeford, Maine facilities were covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (AFL-CIO, Local No. 334), scheduled to expire on April 28, 2007. Approximately 91 of our employees at our Stoughton, Wisconsin facility were covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the Drivers, Salesmen, Warehousemen, Milk Processors, Cannery, Dairy Employees and Helpers Union (Local No. 695), scheduled to expire on March 31, 2011. Although we consider our employee relations to be generally good, a prolonged work stoppage or strike at any facility with union employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We are in negotiations for a new collective bargaining agreement to replace the existing Portland and Biddeford, Maine collective bargaining agreement that is scheduled to expire on April 28, 2007. However, we cannot assure you that we will reach a new agreement with the union prior to the expiration date. If prior to the expiration of the Portland and Biddeford, Maine collective bargaining agreement or prior to the expiration of any of our other existing collective bargaining agreements we are unable to reach new agreements without union action or any such new agreements are not on terms satisfactory to us, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Future labor disruptions in the food industry could significantly impact our sales and profitability. The grocer’s strike in California, which began in October 2003 and ended March 2004, in response to proposed healthcare cuts by several large retail grocers, affected over 70,000 grocery workers in California, and had a negative impact on our net sales. Should a similar strike or other labor disruption occur in California or elsewhere in the future, it may have a significant impact on our sales revenue and operating profits. Risks Relating to our Securities Holders of our EISs, Class A common stock and Class B common stock, may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy our board of directors adopted in connection with our initial public offering, or any dividends at all. Dividend payments are not mandatory or guaranteed and holders of our common stock do not have any legal right to receive, or require us to pay, dividends. Furthermore, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, amend or repeal the dividend policy it adopted in connection with our initial public offering. Our board of directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in this dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Future dividends with respect to shares of our capital stock, if any, depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. The indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, the terms of our credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain significant restrictions on our ability to make dividend payments. In addition, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may limit our ability to pay dividends. 15 Our dividend policy may negatively impact our ability to finance our working capital requirements, capital expenditures or operations. In connection with our initial public offering, our board of directors adopted a dividend policy under which cash generated by our business in excess of operating needs, interest and principal payments on indebtedness, capital expenditures sufficient to maintain our properties and assets and $6.0 million of dividend restricted cash (that can be used for the payment of dividends on the Class A common stock or for any other purpose other than the payment of dividends on the Class B common stock), would in general be distributed as regular quarterly cash dividends (up to the intended dividend rates as determined by our board of directors) to the holders of our Class A common stock and as regular annual cash dividends (up to the permitted dividend rate described under Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividend Policy”) to the holders of our Class B common stock and not be retained by us as cash on our consolidated balance sheet. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities or unanticipated capital expenditure needs or to fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. We may have to forego growth opportunities or capital expenditures that would otherwise be necessary or desirable if we do not find alternative sources of financing. If we do not have sufficient cash for these purposes, our financial condition and our business will suffer. If we have insufficient cash flow to cover the intended dividend payments under the dividend policy adopted by our board of directors we would need to reduce or eliminate dividends or, to the extent permitted under our debt agreements, fund a portion of our dividends with additional borrowings. For fiscal 2006, we had cash flows from operating activities of $32.8 million. If our cash flows from operating activities for future periods were to fall below our minimum expectations (or if our assumptions as to capital expenditures or interest expense were too low or our assumptions as to the sufficiency of our credit facility to finance our working capital needs were to prove incorrect), we would need either to reduce or eliminate dividends or, to the extent permitted under the indenture governing our senior notes, the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and the terms of our credit facility, fund a portion of our dividends with borrowings or from other sources. If we were to use working capital or permanent borrowings to fund dividends, we would have less cash and/or borrowing capacity available for future dividends and other purposes, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to maintain or expand our business. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock that may be senior to our common stock in right of dividend payment. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The right of the holders of our common stock to receive dividends as they may be lawfully declared from time to time by our board of directors is subject to any preferential rights that we may grant to the holders of preferred stock that we may issue. The terms of any preferred stock we issue may place restrictions on the payment of dividends to the holders of our common stock. If we issue preferred stock that is senior to our common stock in right of dividend payment, and our cash flows from operating activities or surplus are insufficient to support dividend payments to the holders of preferred stock and to the holders Class A and Class B common stock, we may be forced to reduce or eliminate dividends to the holders of Class A and Class B common stock. We have substantial indebtedness, which could: · restrict our ability to pay interest on our senior subordinated notes and our senior notes; 16 · restrict our ability to pay dividends with respect to shares of our Class A and Class B common stock; and · impact our financing options and liquidity position. At December 30, 2006, we had $265.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior indebtedness, and $165.8 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated indebtedness. As a result of additional term loan borrowings used to finance our acquisition of the Cream of Wheat and Cream of Rice brands in February 2007, we currently have $470.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior indebtedness. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to applicable law and contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing any indebtedness of ours and our subsidiaries, including our credit facility, which is secured on a senior basis by substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets except our real property, and our senior notes. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our securities, including: · our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; · we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; · a significant portion of our cash flow is likely to be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, capital expenditures and/or dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock; and · we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. While our credit facility contains total leverage, senior leverage and cash interest coverage maintenance covenants and the indentures governing the senior notes and senior subordinated notes contain incurrence covenants that restrict our ability to incur debt, as long as we meet these financial covenant tests we will be allowed to incur additional indebtedness. In addition, the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes allows us to issue additional senior subordinated notes with terms identical (other than issuance date) to our existing senior subordinated notes under certain circumstances. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to repay or refinance the senior subordinated notes, the credit facility or our senior notes upon terms acceptable to us if at all. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the senior subordinated notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. A significant portion of our cash flows from operating activities is dedicated to servicing our debt requirements. In addition, we currently intend to distribute a significant portion of any remaining cash flow to our stockholders in the form of dividends. Moreover, prior to the maturity of our senior notes, we are not required to make any payments of principal on our senior subordinated notes. Our ability to continue to expand our business is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility and to obtain other third-party financing, including through the sale of EISs or other securities. The credit facility is subject to periodic renewal or must otherwise be refinanced. Likewise, we expect that we will refinance our senior notes at or prior to maturity, which will be 17 substantially prior to the maturity date of the senior subordinated notes. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness, including our credit facility or our senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we would be forced to seek other alternatives, including: · sales of assets; · sales of equity; and · negotiations with our lenders or noteholders to restructure the applicable debt. In addition, if we are unable to refinance the senior subordinated notes or the senior notes, our failure to repay all amounts due on the applicable maturity date would cause a default under the applicable indentures. If we are forced to pursue any of the above options, our business and/or the value of an investment in our securities could be adversely affected. Credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain financing and the cost of such financing. Our ability to obtain external financing and, in particular, debt financing is affected by our debt ratings, which are periodically reviewed by the major credit rating agencies. Moody’s and S&P have provided ratings to the senior subordinated notes of Caa1 and CCC+, respectively. In determining our credit ratings, the rating agencies generally consider a number of both quantitative and qualitative factors. These factors include earnings, fixed charges such as interest, cash flows, total debt outstanding, off-balance sheet obligations and other commitments, total capitalization and various ratios calculated from these factors. The ratings provided to us by Moody’s and S&P for the senior subordinated notes indicate that these rating agencies have determined that our senior subordinated notes have a currently identifiable vulnerability to default and that we are dependent upon favorable business, financial, and economic conditions to meet timely payment of interest and repayment of principal on the senior subordinated notes. We are a holding company and we rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. We are a holding company and all of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries and we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations and to enable us to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us depends on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements of those subsidiaries, the credit facility, the terms of the indenture governing the senior notes and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. We may amend our credit facility, the indenture governing the senior notes or the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes, or we may enter into new agreements that govern senior indebtedness. The amended or new terms may significantly affect our ability to pay interest and dividends to holders of our securities, as applicable. Our credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain significant restrictions on our ability to pay interest on the senior subordinated notes and dividends on the shares of Class A and Class B common stock based on meeting specified financial ratios, and compliance with other conditions. As a result of general economic conditions, conditions in the lending markets, the results of our business or for any other reason, we may elect or be required to amend or refinance our credit facility or our senior notes, at or prior to maturity, or enter into additional agreements for senior indebtedness. Regardless of any protection holders of our securities have in the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes, any 18 such amendment, refinancing or additional agreement may contain covenants which could limit in a significant manner our ability to pay interest and dividends to holders of the EISs, our Class A and Class B common stock and our senior subordinated notes. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants and other requirements related to our debt that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. The agreements governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things: · the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the issuance of certain preferred stock or redeemable capital stock; · the payment of dividends on, and purchase or redemption of, capital stock; · a number of other restricted payments, including investments; · specified sales of assets; · specified transactions with affiliates; · the creation of a number of liens; and · consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets. Our credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes include other and more restrictive covenants and prohibit us from prepaying our other indebtedness, including the senior subordinated notes, while senior indebtedness is outstanding. The credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests, including, without limitation, the following: a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum senior leverage ratio. Our ability to comply with the ratios or tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants, or failure to meet or maintain ratios or tests could result in a default under the credit facility, the terms of the indenture governing the senior notes and/or the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes. Certain events of default under the credit facility and the terms of the indenture governing the senior notes would prohibit us from making payments on the senior subordinated notes, including payment of interest when due, and from paying dividends on our common stock. In addition, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility or the terms of the indenture governing the senior notes, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility and the senior notes, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the security granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness and our other indebtedness, including the senior subordinated notes. Interest on the senior subordinated notes may not be deductible by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could significantly reduce our future cash flow and impact our ability to make interest and dividend payments. If all or a portion of the senior subordinated notes were treated as equity rather than debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then a corresponding portion of the interest on the senior subordinated notes would not be deductible by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we would be subject to liability for U.S. withholding taxes on interest payments to non-U.S. holders if such payments were determined to be dividends. Our inability to deduct interest on the senior subordinated notes could materially increase our taxable income and, thus, our U.S. federal and applicable state income tax liability. Our liability for income taxes (and withholding taxes) if the senior subordinated notes were determined to 19 be equity for income tax purposes would materially reduce our after-tax cash flow and would materially and adversely impact our ability to make interest and/or dividend payments and could impact our ability to continue as a going concern. In the case of foreign holders, treatment of the senior subordinated notes as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes would subject such holders in respect of the senior subordinated notes to withholding or estate taxes in the same manner as with regard to common stock and could subject us to liability for withholding taxes that were not collected on payments of interest. Therefore, foreign holders would receive any such payments net of the tax withheld. Even if the IRS does not challenge the tax treatment of the senior subordinated notes, it is possible that we will at some point in the future, as a result of changes in circumstances or facts that come to light in the future, conclude that we should establish a reserve for contingent tax liabilities associated with a disallowance of all or part of the interest deductions on the senior subordinated notes, although our present view is that no such reserve is necessary or appropriate. If we decide to maintain such a reserve, our ability to pay dividends on the shares of our common stock could be materially impaired and the market price and/or liquidity for the ElSs or our common stock could be adversely affected. Future changes that increase cash taxes payable by us could significantly decrease our future cash flow available to make interest and dividend payments with respect to our securities. We are able to amortize goodwill and certain intangible assets within the meaning of Section 197 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Before giving effect to the Cream of Wheat acquisition (which will increase our amortization of intangibles for tax purposes), we expect to be able to amortize for tax purposes approximately $18.2 million annually through 2011, approximately $16.5 million for fiscal 2012, approximately $15.0 million for fiscal 2013, approximately $10.3 million for fiscal 2014, approximately $9.1 million for fiscal 2015 through 2017, approximately $6.5 million for fiscal 2018, approximately $2.1 million for fiscal 2019 and 2020, and approximately $0.1 million for fiscal 2021. If there is a change in U.S. federal tax policy that reduces any of these available deductions or results in an increase in our corporate tax rate, our cash taxes payable may increase, which could significantly reduce our future cash and impact our ability to make interest and dividend payments. If interest rates rise, the trading value of our ElSs and senior subordinated notes may decline. Should interest rates rise or should the threat of rising interest rates develop, debt markets may be adversely affected. As a result, the trading value of our EISs and senior subordinated notes may decline. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of EISs, shares of our Class A common stock, our senior subordinated notes or other securities may depress the price of our securities. We may issue shares of our Class A common stock and senior subordinated notes, which may be in the form of EISs, or other securities from time to time in future financings or as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such future financing, acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our Class A common stock and the aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes, which may be in the form of EISs, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. In addition, we may also grant registration rights covering those EISs, shares of our Class A common stock, senior subordinated notes or other securities in connection with any such future financing, acquisitions and investments. We currently have an effective registration statement on Form S-3 registering the sale of up to $200.0 million of securities, which we may use in the future to issue EISs, Class A common stock, senior subordinated notes or other debt or equity securities. In addition, following the fifth anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering or earlier under certain circumstances, holders of Class B common stock may demand registration of their Class B common stock. 20 Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of EISs, shares of our Class A common stock, a significant principal amount of our senior subordinated notes or other securities could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our securities and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and several other factors could limit another party’s ability to acquire us and deprive our investors of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their securities. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire us and for holders of our securities to receive any related takeover premium for their securities. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 