D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Online Game Business We depend substantially on Shanda Games’s online game business. In 2008, we commenced a reorganization of our businesses, which included the transfer of substantially all of our assets and liabilities related to our MMORPG and advanced casual game businesses to a newly-established legal entity, Shanda Games. On September 30, 2009, Shanda Games completed its initial public offering of its ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As of March 31, 2010, we owned approximately 71.6% of Shanda Games’s outstanding ordinary shares. We are dependent upon Shanda Games’s online game business for a substantial majority of our net revenues. In 2008 and 2009, Shanda Games’s business accounted for approximately 94.6% and 91.7%, respectively, of our net revenues. We expect to continue to derive a substantial majority of our net revenues from Shanda Games in the near term. Thus, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by any factor that contributes to a decline in revenues from Shanda Games. 8 Table of Contents Shanda Games depends substantially on two MMORPGs, which accounted for approximately 75.9% and 78.2% of its net revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively, and 71.6% and 71.4% of our net revenues in 2008 and 2009, respectively, and have finite commercial lifespans. Mir II and Woool, which are two of Shanda Games’s MMORPGs, contributed approximately 55.3% and 20.6% of Shanda Games’s net revenues, respectively, in 2008 and 56.4% and 21.8% of Shanda Games’s net revenues, respectively, in 2009. In turn, Mir II and Woool contributed approximately 52.1% and 19.5% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2008 and 51.5% and 19.9% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2009. We expect Shanda Games to continue to derive a substantial majority of its net revenues from Mir II and Woool in the near term. Thus, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by any factor that contributes to a decline in revenues from Mir II or Woool, including: • any reduction in purchases of virtual items by Mir II or Woool players; • a decrease in the popularity of either game in China due to increased competition or other factors; • the loss of its rights to operate either game due to a termination of a license or other reasons; • failure to improve, update or enhance Mir II or Woool in a timely manner; or • any lasting or prolonged server interruption due to network failures or other factors or any other adverse developments specific to Mir II or Woool. For example, in December 2009, Shanda Games introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game’s users and led to some of the game’s users ceasing to purchase in-game items. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, we expect that Shanda Games’s quarter over quarter revenues for the first quarter of 2010 will decrease and our financial results will be adversely affected. While Shanda Games has introduced an additional expansion pack which it believes will assist to reverse the decline in revenues from Mir II, it cannot be certain that this expansion pack will in fact, achieve this desired goal. As with other online games, Mir II and Woool have finite commercial lifespans. Shanda Games believes that Mir II and Woool, which were launched in 2001 and 2003, respectively, are in the more mature stages of their commercial lifespans. While Shanda Games was able to reverse the decreasing trend in revenues from these two games with the adoption of the item-based revenue model in November 2005 and has since been able to continue to increase its revenues from both games, we cannot assure you that Shanda Games’s revenues from these games will not decline in the future. Shanda Games may also be able to extend the commercial lifespan of Mir II and Woool by enhancing, expanding and upgrading Mir II and Woool to include new features that appeal to existing players and attract new players. If Shanda Games is not able to extend the commercial lifespan of Mir II and Woool, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Shanda Games’s future success relies on developing and sourcing new online games. To remain competitive, Shanda Games must continue to develop and source new online games that appeal to game players. Shanda Games develops and sources new online games through its multi-channel strategy, including in-house development, licensing, investments and acquisitions, co-development and co-operation. However, we cannot assure you that Shanda Games will be successful in executing such a strategy. If Shanda Games fails to do so, our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. The following summarizes risks relating to Shanda Games’s multi-channel strategy. • In-house development of new online games and introduction of expansion packs for Shanda Games’s existing online games. Shanda Games must continue to successfully develop new online games in-house to expand its game portfolio and introduce updates and expansion packs, which are more substantial enhancements than updates, for its existing games to extend the commercial lifespan of its existing games. Shanda Games’s ability to develop successful new online games in-house will largely depend on its ability to (i) anticipate and effectively respond to changing game player interests and preferences and technological advances in a timely manner, (ii) attract, retain and motivate talented online game development personnel and (iii) execute effectively its online game development plans. In-house development requires a substantial initial investment prior to the launch of a game, as well as a significant commitment of future resources to produce updates and expansion packs. Shanda Games’s ability to introduce successful updates and expansion packs for its existing online games will also depend on its ability to collect and analyze user behavior data and feedback from the player community in a timely manner and to effectively incorporate features into its updates and expansion packs to improve the variety and attractiveness of its virtual items. We cannot assure you that Shanda Games will be able to collect and analyze game player behavior data on a timely basis or that such data will accurately reflect game player behavior. 9 Table of Contents • Maintaining good relationships with its licensors, extending licenses for its existing licensed online games and licensing new online games. Shanda Games licenses many of its online games, including some of its most popular games, from third parties. In 2008 and 2009, Shanda Games derived approximately 65.7% and 69.1% of its net revenues, respectively, from online games that were licensed from third parties. As of March 31, 2010, Shanda Games licensed nine of its 26 MMORPGs and five of its eight advanced casual games from other game developers. See “Business Overview — Shanda Games” section of Item 4B. Shanda Games must maintain good relations with its licensors to ensure the continued smooth operation of its licensed games. Additionally, Shanda Games depends upon its licensors to provide technical support necessary for the operation of the licensed games, as well as updates and expansion packs that help to sustain interest in games. Moreover, certain marketing activities often require the consent of its licensors. Finally, its licenses may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach by Shanda Games. Only some of its license agreements allow it to automatically extend the term of the license without renegotiating with the licensors. Shanda Games may want to extend a license upon its expiration but may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it or at all. Its licensors may also demand new royalty terms that are unacceptable to it. Shanda Games’s ability to continue to license its online games and to maintain good relationships with its licensors also affects its ability to license new games developed by the same licensors. • Investments in and acquisitions of other businesses that Shanda Games believes may benefit its business. Shanda Games intends to continue to invest in or acquire other businesses that complement its business or games that it believes may benefit it in terms of game player base or game portfolio. For example, in January 2010, Shanda Games entered into agreements to purchase Goldcool Holdings Limited, or Goldcool, a Shanghai-based online game developer and operator, and Mochi Media, which operates a leading platform for distributing and monetizing browser-based games worldwide. However, Shanda Games’s ability to grow through investments and acquisitions will depend on the availability of suitable candidates at an acceptable cost and its ability to consummate such transactions on commercially reasonable terms, such as its acquisitions of Goldcool and Mochi Media, as well as its ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. The identification and completion of these transactions may also require it to expend significant management and other resources. Moreover, the benefits of an investment or acquisition may take considerable time to materialize, and we cannot assure you that any particular transaction will achieve the intended benefits. Future acquisitions could also expose Shanda Games to potential risks, including those associated with the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of the acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, its relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. • Sourcing of new online games through co-development and co-operation. Shanda Games co-develops online games with international game developers. Shanda Games also co-operates certain games in China under nonexclusive licenses granted by third-party Chinese developers who also operate those same games on their own platform. Shanda Games must maintain good relations with its co-developers and co-operators to ensure the continued smooth development and operation of its co-developed and co-operated games. Shanda Games may incur significant cost overrun in game product development in its co-development arrangements. In addition, its newly co-developed games may not be well received by its game players. Shanda Games’s ability to co-develop and co-operate successful online games also depends on the availability of co-development and co-operation partner candidates. 10 Table of Contents Shanda Games’s new games, such as AION, may not be commercially successful, and Shanda Games may fail to launch new games according to its timetable, or at all. In order to remain competitive, Shanda Games must introduce new online games that are attractive to its game players and can generate additional revenues and diversify its revenue sources. The games in its announced pipeline only represent its current expectations. Shanda Games may not launch these games or, if launched, they may not be commercially successful. The performance of Shanda Games’s existing online games is not an indication of the future performance of any game it is currently developing. Although Shanda Games has launched several new online games in the past three years, none of these games individually has been able to contribute 10% or more of its net revenues annually. There are many factors that could adversely affect the popularity of Shanda Games’s new games, and if its new games are not commercially successful, it may not be able to recover its game sourcing or development costs, which can be significant. For example, in April 2009, Shanda Games launched AION, an MMORPG that it licensed from NCSoft Corporation, a leading South Korean game developer, operator and publisher. While the launch of AION has generated significant market attention, we cannot assure you that AION will be commercially successful or meet market expectations. The failure of new games such as AION to become commercially successful could adversely affect market confidence in Shanda Games’s and in turn our future growth prospects and result in a drop in the market price of our ADSs. The timing of the launch of Shanda Games’s pipeline games is also critical to its business. We also cannot assure you these games will be launched based on their current timetables or at all. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, insufficient game development personnel, a lack of marketing or other resources or acceptance of or interest in the new games among game players during the testing phase and adverse developments in Shanda Games’s relationship with the licensors of its new licensed games, could result in delays in launching or prevent it from launching its new games at all. If Shanda Games fails to launch new games according to its timetable or at all, it may disappoint the game player base, fail to meet the targets for its anticipated financial and operating results or lose its market leadership position to its competitors, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games’s new games may attract game players away from its existing games. Shanda Games’s new online games may attract game players away from its existing games and shrink its existing games’ player base, which could in turn make those existing games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from its existing games. Players of its existing games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in its new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing its existing games. In addition, its game players may migrate from its existing games with a higher profit margin to new games with a lower profit margin. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes or adjustments Shanda Games makes to its existing or new games may not be well received by its game players. As Shanda Games develops new online games or introduces updates and expansion packs to its existing games, it closely monitors its game players’ tastes and preferences and may introduce or change certain game features or game play styles to make its games more attractive. We cannot assure you that these changes or adjustments will be well received by its game players, who may decide not to play the new game or cease playing the existing game. For example, in December 2009, Shanda Games introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game’s users and led to some of the game’s users ceasing to purchase in-game items. As a result, any changes or adjustments Shanda Games makes to existing or new games may adversely impact our revenues and business prospects. 11 Table of Contents The revenue models Shanda Games adopts for its online games may not be suitable. Shanda Games currently operates substantially all of its online games using the item-based revenue model and has generated, and expects to continue to generate, a substantial majority of its revenues using this revenue model. Under the item-based model, its game players can play games for free, but may choose to pay for in-game virtual items and other value-added services provided by Shanda Games to enhance the game-playing experience. Although Shanda Games has adopted the item-based revenue model for substantially all of its online games, it may not be the best revenue model for its games. The item-based revenue model requires Shanda Games to develop or license online games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires Shanda Games to track closely game players’ tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If Shanda Games fails to develop or offer virtual items which game players purchase, it may not be able to effectively convert its game player base into paying users. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns from PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that the Chinese youth spend on online games and intend to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by an individual game player. A revenue model that does not charge for playing time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. Furthermore, Shanda Games may change the revenue model for some of its online games if it believes the existing revenue models are not optimal. We cannot assure you that the revenue model that Shanda Games has adopted for any of its online games will continue to be suitable for that game, or that Shanda Games will not in the future need to switch its revenue model or introduce a new revenue model for that game. A change in revenue model could result in various adverse consequences, including disruptions of the game operations, criticism from game players who have invested time and money in a game and would be adversely affected by such a change, decreases in the number of game players or decreases in the revenues Shanda Games generates from the online games, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games faces risks associated with the licensing of its games internationally, and if it is unable to effectively manage these risks, its ability to expand its business internationally could be impaired. As of March 31, 2010, Shanda Games licensed 15 online games to game operators in a number of countries or regions. Shanda Games plans to further license its existing and new games in more countries and regions. Licensing its games in international markets exposes Shanda Games to a number of risks, including: • identifying and maintaining good relations with game operators who are knowledgeable in, and can effectively distribute and operate its games in, international markets; • negotiating licensing agreements with game operators on terms that are commercially acceptable to Shanda Games and enforcing the provisions of those agreements; • developing games, updates and expansion packs catering to overseas markets and renewing Shanda Games’s license agreements with game operators upon expiration; • maintaining the reputation of Shanda Games and its games, given that its games are operated by game operators in the international markets with different standards; • protecting Shanda Games’s intellectual property rights overseas and managing the related costs; • auditing the royalties Shanda Games is entitled to receive; • complying with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which Shanda Games’s games are offered, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; and • managing foreign currency risks. In addition, Shanda Games’s plan to continue to license its games in international markets may also be adversely affected by public opinion or government policies in markets in which it licenses its games. For example, South Korea requires online game operators, such as Actoz, to obtain ratings classifications for online games and implement procedures to restrict minors from accessing online games. More recently, the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism in South Korea has enacted rules which require certain online game operators to automatically log off underage users of certain online games and to slow down the Internet speed for underage users who have been logged on continuously for too many hours. If Shanda Games is not able to license its games internationally as planned, our business, financial conditions and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Shanda Games’s business may be materially harmed if its online games are not featured prominently in a sufficient number of Internet cafes in China. A substantial number of game players access Shanda Games’s games through Internet cafes in China. Due to limited hardware capacity, Internet cafes generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. Shanda Games thus competes with a growing number of online game operators to have its online games featured on these computers. This competition has intensified in China due to a nationwide suspension of approval for the establishment of new Internet cafes in 2007. See “— Risks Relating to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure — The PRC government has tightened its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently one of the primary venues for Shanda Games’s users to play online games.” If Shanda Games fails to feature its games prominently and sufficiently in Internet cafes in China or fails to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The growth of the online game industry and market acceptance of Shanda Games’s online games remains uncertain. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of Shanda Games’s online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and will depend on factors beyond its control, including: • the growth rate in the number of users of personal computers, Internet and broadband in China and other markets in which Shanda Games’s online games are offered; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • changes in consumer demographics, tastes or preferences; • the popularity and price of new online games and virtual items that Shanda Games and its competitors launch and distribute; • Shanda Games’s ability to timely upgrade and improve its existing games to extend their commercial lifespan and to maintain or expand their market share in the online game industry; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly console system games such as those made by Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, which are popular in many other countries and are becoming increasingly popular in China and other countries or regions in which Shanda Games markets its online games; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions that impact the level of discretionary consumer spending. Shanda Games’s ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by its ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Although MMORPGs are currently popular in China, there is no assurance that they will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that Shanda Games operates, would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Shanda Games must be able to track and respond to these changes in game players’ preferences in a timely and effective manner. Furthermore, given that the item-based revenue model relies on in-game purchases, Shanda Games must be able to track and respond quickly to changes in game preferences and consumer spending trends. Shanda Games may not be able to adapt to the rapidly evolving online game industry in China. China’s online game industry is rapidly evolving. Shanda Games must adapt to new industry trends, including changes in game players’ preferences, new revenue models, new game content distribution models, new technologies and new governmental regulations. Shanda Games strives to adapt its business in response to evolving trends and operations in order to maintain and strengthen its leadership in the industry. However, we cannot assure you that Shanda Games will be able to do so successfully, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Shanda Games faces significant competition in the online game industry in China. The online game industry in China is increasingly competitive. In recent years, numerous competitors have entered the online game industry in China. We expect more companies to enter the market and we expect a wider range of online games to be introduced to China. Competition from other online game operators, both based in China as well as overseas, is likely to increase in the future. Other online game operators or developers, such as China-based Changyou.com Limited, Giant Interactive Group, Inc., Kingsoft Corporation Limited, or Kingsoft, NetDragon Websoft Inc., NetEase.com, Nineyou International Limited, Perfect World Co., Ltd., Tencent Holdings Limited, and The9 Limited, as well as international game developers, such as Blizzard Entertainment, Inc., Electronic Arts Inc., NCSoft Corporation, Nexon Corporation, NHN Corp. and Webzen, Inc., are Shanda Games’s current or potential future competitors. As the online game industry in China is constantly evolving, Shanda Games’s current or future competitors may compete more successfully as the industry matures. In particular, any of these competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by Shanda Games. These products and services may weaken Shanda Games’s brand name and achieve greater market acceptance than those of Shanda Games. In addition, at or around the time when Shanda Games launches its new MMORPGs or advanced casual games, competitors may launch similar games, which may compete with Shanda Games’s games for potential game players. Furthermore, any of Shanda Games’s current or future competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other strategic or commercial relationships with, larger, more established and better financed companies and therefore obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and game licensing and development resources than Shanda Games has. In addition, increased competition in the online game industry in China could make it difficult for Shanda Games to retain existing players and attract new players. Moreover, Shanda Games may face competition from console games that have achieved significant success in markets other than China but have yet to be permitted to be sold in China due to regulatory and other reasons. If these game consoles, many of which are strengthening their online game features, are permitted to be sold in China, Shanda Games would face additional competition. Shanda Games also competes with other forms of entertainment, such as television and movies. If Shanda Games is unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If Shanda Games fails to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies, its games may become obsolete or uncompetitive. The online game industry is subject to rapid technological change. Shanda Games must anticipate the emergence of new technologies and assess their market acceptance. In addition, government authorities or industry organizations may adopt new standards that apply to game development. Shanda Games also must invest significant financial resources in product development to keep pace with technological advances. However, development activities are inherently uncertain, and Shanda Games’s significant expenditures on technologies may not generate corresponding benefits. If Shanda Games falls behind in adopting new technologies or standards, its existing games may lose popularity, and its newly developed games may not be well received by its game players. In addition, Shanda Games may incur significant cost overruns in product development, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games’s online games may contain errors or defects and are susceptible to cheating programs. Shanda Games’s online games may contain errors or other defects. In addition, parties unrelated to it have developed, and may continue to develop, Internet cheating programs that enable game players to obtain unfair advantages over other game players who do not use such programs. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a player. The occurrence of errors or defects in Shanda Games’s online games or its failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of its game environment could disrupt its operations, damage its reputation and discourage players from playing its games. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Shanda Online Our company’s content providers depend on Shanda Online to provide services that are critical to our business. Many of our company’s content providers, including Shanda Games, have engaged Shanda Online to provide certain integrated platform services. These content providers depend on Shanda Online for the provision of services that are critical to the operation of their businesses, including, among others, online billing and payment, customer service, user authentication, pre-paid card marketing and distribution and data support service. If Shanda Online breaches its obligations under the contractual arrangements to provide such service to any of our content providers, or refuses to renew these service agreements on terms acceptable to any of our content providers, or at all, our content providers may not be able to find a suitable alternative service provider or establish its own integrated service platform in a timely manner. Similarly, any failure of or significant quality deterioration in Shanda Online’s integrated service platform could materially and adversely affect our content providers’ businesses. For example, some of our company’s content providers rely on Shanda Online’s customer service representatives as the first point of contact to serve their users. Shanda Online handles such customer requests such as adding virtual currencies to accounts with pre-paid cards, retrieving forgotten passwords and recovering lost user accounts, and liaising with our content providers, for example to Shanda Games’s game management team if the inquiries involve game-related technical problems, such as recovering virtual items and in-game characters. Our content providers also rely on Shanda Online to provide user authentication services for their users who access their content through Shanda Online’s service platform, and for pre-paid card distribution. If Shanda Online fails to address customer service requests properly and in a timely manner, our users may be unable to access our content or attribute any unpleasant experience with Shanda Online’s customer service to our content providers or to us. Any negative impact to our reputation could lead to Shanda Online failing to retain current or failing to attract new users or content providers, in which case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because Shanda Online offers its services to third-party content providers, our users may consume less of our internal content. Shanda Online provides integrated services to third-party content providers that compete with our company’s content providers and may enter into additional similar commercial relationships with other content providers. These commercial relationships may strengthen these third-parties’ market shares and enable them to achieve market acceptance for their products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our company’s content providers’ business. For example, the online games that Shanda Games’s competitors offer through Shanda Online’s integrated services platform may attract away players of Shanda Games’s online games and shrink its player bases. Furthermore, even though Shanda Online charges service fees to these third-party content providers, if Shanda Games’s current users spend money on its competitors’ games which are offered through Shanda Online’s integrated services platform that would otherwise have been spent on Shanda Games’s online games, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We could be liable for failure of, disruptions in, or third-party breaches of security of Shanda Online’s online payment platform. Currently, many of our content providers rely on Shanda Online’s integrated service platform’s online payment system to sell virtual pre-paid cards to our users. Secured transmission of confidential information, such as our users’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks is essential to maintaining consumer confidence in such payment channels, which allow our content providers to collect payments on a timely basis. In addition, we expect that an increasing amount of the sales of pre-paid cards will be conducted over the Internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, associated online crime will likely increase as well and we cannot assure you that Shanda Online’s current security measures and those of the third parties with whom Shanda Online transacts business, are adequate. Security breaches of these online payment systems could result in non-collection of payments and expose Shanda Online or us to litigation and possible liability for failing to protect confidential game player information, which could harm Shanda Online’s reputation and its ability to attract users to its platform. 15 Table of Contents Shanda Online relies on third-party distributors to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network. Online payment systems in China are at a developmental stage and are not as widely available or acceptable to consumers in China as in the United States. As a result, Shanda Online relies heavily on a multi-layer distribution and payment network comprised of third-party distributors for sales to, and collection of payment from, our users. As Shanda Online does not enter into long-term agreements with any of its distributors, we cannot assure you that Shanda Online will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. Shanda Online also relies on third-party distributors to distribute pre-paid cards to users which allow access to our online entertainment content. Shanda Online typically offers discount pricing rates to distributors based on different factors. If Shanda Online fails to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network, or the discount rates it pays to distributors were to increase, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Shanda Online’s business may be affected by network interruptions, capacity shortfalls, security breaches or computer viruses. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of Shanda Online’s network infrastructure, including as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods, may cause significant harm to Shanda Online’s reputation and its ability to attract and maintain users. Shanda Online maintains a distributed server network architecture with third-party service providers hosting servers in more than one hundred cities throughout China. Shanda Online does not maintain full backup for its server network hardware. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include: • any break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of Shanda Online’s servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to its systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; • any unanticipated surge in users or inability to support content resulting in an overload to Shanda Online’s server network which may cause interruptions to the service; and • any disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would prevent our users outside Shanghai from logging on to any of our content, for which the servers are all located in Shanghai. In the past, Shanda Online’s server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third-party service providers. Shanda Online’s network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer virus, hackings and similar events. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of the online entertainment content on its service platform or deterioration in the quality of access to Shanda Online’s online entertainment content could reduce its users’ satisfaction. In addition, any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could have a material adverse effect on Shanda Online’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Online does not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to its systems and it does not have business interruption insurance. 16 Table of Contents The successful operation of Shanda Online’s business and implementation of its growth strategies, including its ability to accommodate additional content providers and users in the future, depend upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed line and wireless telecommunications networks in China. Although there are private sector Internet service providers in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Shanda Online relies on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. Although the PRC government has announced plans to develop aggressively the national information infrastructure, Shanda Online cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed as planned or at all. In addition, Shanda Online has no access to alternative networks and services on a timely basis, if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands necessary for the continued growth in Internet usage. Shanda Online relies on Shanda Games for substantial portion of its revenues. Shanda Online operates its integrated services platform through the Shanda Networking entities, including Shanda Networking, Nanjing Shanda, Shengfutong and Yichong which entered into a cooperation agreement with the Shulong entities, VIEs of Shanda Games, to provide certain online e-commerce platform services to Shanda Games for a period of five years commencing on July 1, 2008. Shanda Games has agreed to pay the Shanda Networking entities an amount equal to the difference between (x) the amount Shengfutong receives from distributors or users from the sale of the pre-paid cards and (y) a fixed percentage of the face value of a pre-paid card as agreed upon between Shanda Networking, Nanjing Shanda and Shanda Games. See “—Our company’s content providers depend on Shanda Online to provide services that are critical to our business.” This cooperation agreement is the source of a significant portion of Shanda Online’s revenues. If Shanda Games were to decide to not renew this agreement for any number of reasons, including user dissatisfaction with Shanda Online’s services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Use of Shanda Online’s services for illegal purposes could harm its business. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of their users on their service is often challenged in the PRC and internationally. In violation of our policies, unlawful goods and stolen goods have been listed and traded on our services. Shanda Online may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and it may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. The PRC government has also raised concerns about the use of online services for gambling, money laundering and illicit trade. See “— Risks Relating to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure — The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content deemed to be inappropriate.” Although Shanda Online has prohibited the listing of stolen goods and certain high-risk items and implemented other protective measures, it may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm its business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm its business. In addition, Shanda Online may receive media attention relating to the listing or sale of unlawful goods and stolen goods using our services. This negative publicity, even if factually incorrect, could damage its reputation, diminish the value of its brand names and make users reluctant to use its services. Shanda Online’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software and other intellectual property, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities fraud. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities. Despite measures it has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, including its ability to take legal action to recover its losses for certain violations of its acceptable use policy, illegal activities could still be funded using Shanda Online. Any resulting claims or liabilities could adversely affect our business. 17 Table of Contents Shanda Online is dependent on the business performance of its content provider customers. Shanda Online generates revenue from services it provides to both our company’s content providers and third-party content providers. The amount of services Shanda Online provides to these content providers is dependent on the amount of services that their users demand. The failure to secure new key customers, the loss of key customers or the occurrence of significant reductions in sales from a key customer would cause Shanda Online’s revenues to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Online’s business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft. To succeed, online commerce and communications must provide a secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Shanda Online’s security measures may not detect or prevent security breaches that could harm its business. Currently, a significant number of its users authorize it to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by it. Its users routinely provide credit card and other financial information. Shanda Online relies on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of its security could harm Shanda Online’s reputation and business, and could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws. In addition, a party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruption in its operations, damage its computers or those of its users, or otherwise damage its reputation and business. Under credit card rules and its contracts with its card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that it stores, or that is stored by PayPal’s direct credit card processing customers, Shanda Online could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if Shanda Online fails to follow credit card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, it could incur significant fines or loose its ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If Shanda Online were unable to accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Shanda Online’s servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and it has experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of its website unavailable for periods of time. Shanda Online may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as it expands the number of places where it operates. Security breaches, including any breach by Shanda Online or by parties with which it has commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of its users’ personal information, could damage its reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Shanda Online’s users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses through “trojan horse” programs to its users’ computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by Shanda Online or a user of one of those businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite its efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage the “Shanda” brand, discourage use of the Shanda Online website, and increase its costs. System failures could harm Shanda Online’s business. Shanda Online has experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of its website will reduce its current revenues and profits, could harm its future revenues and profits, and could subject it to regulatory scrutiny. Frequent or persistent interruptions in its services could cause current or potential users to believe that its systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to its competitors or to avoid its site, and could permanently harm its reputation and brands. Additionally, because Shanda Online’s customers may use its products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to its customers’ businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from Shanda Online or us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly to address. 18 Table of Contents Although Shanda Online’s systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of service attacks, and similar events. Some of its systems are not fully redundant, and its disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Shanda Online’s systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions it may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of its third-party hosting providers to close a facility it uses without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at its hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in its services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of Shanda Online’s services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of its services. Measures Shanda Online sometimes takes to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with its customers or decrease activity on its sites by making its sites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If Shanda Online does not handle customer complaints effectively, its reputation may suffer and it may lose its customers’ confidence. Because Shanda Online provides a financial service and operates in a highly regulated environment, it must provide telephone as well as email customer support and must resolve certain customer contacts within relatively short time frames. As part of Shanda Online’s program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if such funds or the customer’s account activity are identified by Shanda Online’s risk models as suspicious. If Shanda Online is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, its users may have negative experiences, it may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged, and it could become subject to litigation. Negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for Shanda Online could cause its reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in the “Shanda” brand as a whole. Risks Related to Our Other Businesses The risk factors set forth below are believed to be important in that they may have a material impact upon the future financial performance of our other businesses, including Shanda Literature and Hurray!. For more information on the contribution of those business to our company’s financial results, see Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. Shanda Literature faces the risks of uncertainties regarding the growth of the online literature industry and market acceptance. Shanda Literature operates an online-reading website where users can read literature published on the Internet. The online literature business is a relatively new and evolving industry and concept. Shanda Literature is dependent on authors using its various online platforms, as opposed to the traditional paperback format, to publish their literary works. As reading literary works online represents a new means of reading literary works, Shanda Literature cannot be certain that its users will prefer to read literary works online as opposed to the traditional paperback form. In addition, Shanda Literature cannot be certain that the authors will prefer to publish their literary works online on one of its literature platforms, as opposed to in paperback form. The failure of authors to publish, and its users to read, literary works online will likely adversely affect Shanda Literature’s business and prospects. Shanda Literature’s business is dependent on its authors. The literary works published on Shanda Literature’s online literature platforms are written by independent authors, including a small percentage of whom are responsible for a substantial amount of its revenues. Most of these authors are not bound by exclusivity restrictions. Shanda Literature has also recently begun contracting with popular offline authors to produce online content. If Shanda Literature is unable to retain its most popular authors or if those authors or its offline authors do not produce content that is appealing to its users, the revenues and profitability of Shanda Literature could by materially and adversely affected. Pirated versions of copyrighted content on Shanda Literature may be viewable through other websites. Pirated copies of literature works that are licensed to Shanda Literature are often posted on third-party websites. Unauthorized and pirated copies of Shanda Literature’s content may reduce the revenue it generates. Shanda Literature has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy. For example, in March 2010, Shanda Literature filed a copyright infringement case against Baidu, alleging that pirated copies of five of its novels could be viewed through links in Baidu search results and on a Baidu message board service. There can be no assurance that Shanda Literature’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy. Furthermore, litigation in China is generally expensive and time consuming and the amount of damage rewards are low in comparison to those in the United States and other developed countries. Changes in Shanda Literature’s contracts with China’s telecommunications operators or the policies of the telecommunications operators could harm its business. Shanda Literature has begun to offer wireless value-added services (“WVAS”) which allow its users to read literature it publishes over mobile networks. Shanda Literature’s WVAS business is subject to the risk that (i) it may not be able to successfully negotiate favorable terms with the three principal telecommunications operators in China, China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, and China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom (together, the “telecommunications operators”) and their provincial affiliates, (ii) the MIIT or the telecommunications operators may unilaterally change their policies and/or the enforcement of their current policies or (iii) the telecommunication operators may impose higher service or network fees on it, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on Shanda Literature’s revenues and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Hurray! depends on China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, the three principal telecommunications network operators in China, for the major portion of its revenue. Hurray! offers its services over mobile networks to consumers through the telecommunications operators. These principal operators service the major portion of China’s approximately 747 million mobile phone subscribers as of December 31, 2009, according to the 2009 Statistic Bulletin on National Telecommunication Industry issued by China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Hurray!’s agreements with these operators and their provincial affiliates are non-exclusive and have a limited term (generally one year for China Mobile and one or two years for China Unicom). Hurray! usually renews these agreements or enter into new ones when the prior agreements expire, but occasionally the renewal or new agreements can be delayed by periods of one month or more. In 2008, China Telecom and its provincial affiliates entered into new agreements with Hurray! in connection with the network assets that they acquired from China Unicom (as discussed below). If any of China Mobile, China Unicom or China Telecom ceases to continue to cooperate with Hurray!, it would be impossible to find appropriate replacement telecommunications operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer Hurray!’s WVAS to customers of such telecommunications operator. Hurray! derived approximately 50% of its combined WVAS revenue from China Mobile, 25% from China Unicom, and 21% from China Telecom in 2009. In addition, the Chinese government has extensive involvement in determining the structure of the telecommunications industry in China. During the development of this industry, changes in government policy have resulted in major restructurings of the telecommunications operators, including the establishment of new operators and the combination of all or part of existing operators. In an effort to promote greater competition among the telecommunications operators and foster the development of 3G mobile networks, on May 24, 2008, the MIIT, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the PRC Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Reform of Telecommunications Systems, or the Telecommunications Notice, which aims to consolidate China’s existing telecommunications operators into three new telecommunications operators that can offer both mobile and fixed-line services. Under the Telecommunications Notice, China Mobile merged with China Railway Communication Co., Ltd., which operated a national fixed-line network, China Telecom acquired the Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) wireless business and network from China Unicom, and China Unicom, which operates a Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) network and business, merged with China Netcom, which was principally a fixed-line operator. Due to the restructuring, Hurray!’s services to China Telecom have increased and its services to China Unicom have decreased beginning from October 1, 2008, the date that China Telecom officially acquired the CDMA wireless business and network from China Unicom. On January 7, 2009, the MIIT issued 3G licenses to China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. China Mobile operates the TD-SCDMA network, China’s self-developed 3G standard, China Unicom operates the WCDMA, a 3G standard originally developed in Europe, and China Telecom operates CDMA2000, a 3G standard originally developed in the U.S. Any future significant restructuring of any segment of the telecommunications industry in China, including in particular China Mobile, China Unicom or China Telecom (which are collectively referred to hereinafter in this annual report on Form 20-F as the “telecommunications operators”) or any other telecommunications operators in China and the potential combination of the mobile operations of various telecommunications operators in China, could significantly affect Hurray!’s relationships with these telecommunications operators. Due to Hurray!’s reliance on the telecommunications operators for its WVAS, any loss or deterioration of its relationships with them, due to their own business decisions or government-imposed restructurings, may result in severe disruptions to its business operations and the loss of a significant portion of revenue. 20 Table of Contents Hurray! may not be able to successfully negotiate favorable terms with the telecommunications operators and their provincial affiliates. Given the dominant market position of China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, Hurray!’s leverage with these telecommunications operators is limited in terms of negotiating agreements, resolving disputes or otherwise. In particular, its agreements with them can be terminated in advance, penalties may be imposed or other parts of its services may be suspended or terminated, and approval for its new services may be delayed for a variety of reasons which vary among the individual agreements with the telecommunications operators, including, for example, if Hurray! breaches its obligations under the agreements, a high number of customer complaints are made about its services or it cannot satisfy the operational or financial performance criteria established by the applicable telecommunications operator. Hurray! may also be compelled to alter its agreements with these telecommunications operators in ways which adversely affect its business, such as by limiting the services it can offer or imposing other changes that limit the revenue it can derive from such agreements. In the past, telecommunications operators have entered into new contracts in certain provinces with service providers which change the share percentages it retained for customer payments. The percentage of the payments from customers received by service providers has been decreasing since 2006. Hurray! may not be able to adequately respond to any such changes because it is not able to predict whether the telecommunications operators will unilaterally amend its contracts with them. Unilateral changes in the policies of the MIIT and the telecommunications operators and in their enforcement of their policies have resulted in service suspensions and Hurray! having to pay additional charges to the telecommunications operators. The MIIT and the telecommunications operators have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the WVAS industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the telecommunications operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality and increase customer satisfaction. For example, in May 2007, China Mobile began the operational practice of displaying service fee reminders and seeking express confirmation prior to processing the wireless application protocol (“WAP”) page download requests of mobile phone users. China Mobile also began the practice of only including links to its own WVAS offerings on the embedded menus of certain mobile handsets with customized software for China Mobile users. In the past, such embedded menus featured links to all popular products offered on China Mobile’s networks, including Hurray!’s products. In August 2007, MIIT introduced new policies regarding WVAS that mobile phone users subscribe to on a free trial basis. Service providers are now required to notify such mobile phone users once the free trial period ends and must obtain confirmation from them prior to charging them for continued subscription to the services. Upon obtaining such confirmation, service providers are then required to notify mobile phone users of the exact pricing for such service and send billing reminders to them. In November 2009, the telecommunications operators suspended the ability of their WAP service partners to charge for services in an effort to eradicate mobile pornography from their networks. The suspension applied to all of the telecommunications operators’ WAP service partners in China, regardless of a partner’s propensity to disseminate pornography. The telecommunications operators have not yet indicated how long their suspensions would last or whether they will expand current measures. These measures may bring pressure on the WVAS market in China and add to uncertainty of Hurray!’s WVAS operation in the coming quarters. In addition, in the last several years, acting under the guidance of the MIIT, the telecommunications operators have been enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and have initiated steps to improve customer service. This rigorous enforcement has resulted in a number of severe penalties imposed on Hurray! and other participants in the market in recent years. Penalties have included precluding service providers from offering certain services over a mobile operator’s network or from offering new services for a fixed period. 21 Table of Contents Hurray! may not be able to adequately respond to these or other developments in mobile operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the telecommunications operators’ policies are in a state of flux at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints have no merit), we cannot be certain that Hurray!’s business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite its efforts to so comply. Accordingly, Hurray! may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which Hurray! believed to be permissible. Any future noncompliance with the telecommunications operators’ policies by Hurray!, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on its revenue and profitability. The telecommunications operators may impose higher service or network fees on Hurray! for their own business purposes or if Hurray! is unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria. Fees for Hurray!’s WVAS are charged on a monthly subscription or per-use basis. As provided in its network service agreements, Hurray! relies on the telecommunications operators for both billing of and collection from, mobile phone users of fees for its services. As noted above under “— The termination or alteration of Hurray!’s various agreements with the telecommunications operators and their provincial affiliates would materially and adversely impact its revenue and profitability,” Hurray!’s negotiating leverage with the telecommunications operators is limited. As a result, the telecommunications operators could for their own business purposes unilaterally amend Hurray!’s agreements with them to increase the service or network fees that they retain from the revenues generated by Hurray!’s WVAS. In addition, under these agreements, these service fees in some cases rise if Hurray! fails to meet certain customer usage, revenues and other performance criteria. Moreover, for 2G services, to the extent that the number of messages sent by Hurray! over networks of the telecommunications operators exceeds the number of messages its customers send to it, it must pay per message network fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of its services increases. The number of messages sent by Hurray! will exceed those sent by its users, for example, if a user sends Hurray! a single message to order a game but Hurray! in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that Hurray! will be able to satisfy any performance criteria in the future or that the telecommunications operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. Any increase in the service or network fees of the telecommunications operators could reduce its gross margins. The telecommunications operators may change their practices with regard to how service selections appear on their WAP portals. The current practice of the telecommunications operators is generally to place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. Services at the top of the menu are more accessible and therefore more frequently accessed than those services lower on the menu. This effectively reinforces the position of the most popular services. The placement of services on these menus creates significant competitive advantages for the top-ranked services and significant challenges for newer and less popular services. We believe that Hurray!’s prominent position on the WAP portals of the telecommunications operators has historically helped Hurray! maintain its position in the market. If any of the telecommunications operators changes its current practices so that the most popular services are not those that are the most accessible to customers, restricts the number or type of services a service provider is permitted to place on service menus or adopts new interface technologies that eliminate the current service menus, Hurray!’s services could become more difficult for users to access and could, therefore, become less popular. In addition, China Mobile only includes links to its own WVAS offerings on the embedded menus of mobile handsets with customized software for China Mobile users while excluding links to products from third-party WVAS service providers such as Hurray!. This practice has adversely affected Hurray!’s revenues. If additional similar changes occur, they will likely materially and adversely affect the revenue from Hurray!’s services. The businesses of Hurray!’s affiliated music companies are subject to constantly changing consumer tastes. Hurray! engages in artist development, music production, offline distribution and event organization in Mainland China and Taiwan through Hurray!’s affiliated music companies. Hurray! has also recently expanded its artist agency business. 22 Table of Contents Each music recording and concert performance is an individual artistic work. The commercial success of a music product or concert depends on consumer taste, the quality and acceptance of competing offerings or events released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change quickly. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the financial success of any particular product, the timing of such success, or the popularity of any particular artist. The future success of Hurray!’s affiliated music companies depends on their ability to continue to develop recorded music and organize concerts that are interesting and engaging to their target audience, primarily users of the Internet and WVAS in the case of their recorded music. If the audience determines that the content does not reflect their tastes, then the audience size could decrease, which would adversely affect Hurray!’s results of operations. The ability of Hurray!’s affiliated music entities to develop compelling content depends on several factors, including the following: • technical expertise of their production and recording staff; • popularity of the artists represented by Hurray!’s affiliated music companies; • access to songs or songwriters; and • effectiveness of online and offline marketing and promotional activities. Furthermore, Hurray!’s affiliated music companies must invest significant amounts for development prior to the release of any product or organization of an event. These costs may not be recovered if the product or event is unsuccessful. There can be no assurance that such products or events will be successful releases or that any product or events will generate revenues sufficient to cover the cost of development or organization. Hurray!’s expansion into the online video market may not be successful. China’s online video market is highly competitive, and Ku6 may be unable to compete successfully against established industry competitors and new entrants, some of which have greater financial resources than Ku6 does or currently enjoy a superior market position than Ku6 does. In January 2010, Hurray! acquired Ku6, an online video site in China. Ku6’s operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors that could have an adverse impact on the business, such as reliance on advertisers in certain industries for brand advertising revenues and reliance on certain key content providers for online video entertainment services. Hurray! may not be able to effectively utilize Ku6’s online video portal. Thus, the operational and financial results of the merger may differ from Hurray!’s expectations. Additionally, there is significant competition among online video sites, which Hurray!’s management estimates to currently number over one hundred in China. A large number of independent online video sites, such as Youku.com and Tudou.com, compete against Ku6. In addition, the Internet portals in China, including Sina.com, Sohu.com and Baidu.com, which have longer operating histories and more experience in attracting and retaining users and managing customers than Ku6 does, have begun to launch their own video businesses. Online video sites are also increasingly competing to obtain rights to licensed content for their websites, which may result in increases in the price of licensed content and prevent Ku6 from obtaining attractive content on acceptable terms. Any of Ku6’s present or future competitors may offer online video services which provide significant technology, performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by Ku6, and therefore achieve greater market acceptance than Ku6’s. Ku6 and its affiliates (including Hurray! and/or Shanda) are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property rights claims due to infringement of video on Ku6.com, which are costly to defend against and, could result in payment of money damages. Ku6 has had copyright claims filed against it by companies alleging that certain videos on Ku6.com infringe the rights of others. As a result of Hurray!’s acquisition of Ku6, Hurray! and Shanda may also be subject to copyright claims filed in certain jurisdictions due to Ku6’s infringement. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, and may also result in a change in Ku6’s business practices, which could result in a loss of revenues for Ku6 or otherwise harm Ku6’s business. 23 Table of Contents Ku6 depends on online advertising for a significant portion of its revenues, but the online advertisement market includes many uncertainties, which could cause its advertising revenues to decline. Ku6 derives a significant portion of its revenues, and expects to derive a significant portion of its revenues for the foreseeable future, from the sale of advertising on its website. The growth of Ku6’s advertising revenues relies on increased revenue from the sale of advertising spaces on its website, which may be affected by many of the following risk factors: • The online advertising market is new and rapidly evolving, particularly in China. As a result, many of Ku6’s current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising; • Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail Ku6’s online advertising services. For example, in 2006 and 2007, the PRC government enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising. As a result of these regulations, Ku6 may lose some of its existing medical advertising clients; • Advertising clients that have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant to adopt a new strategy that may limit or compete with their existing efforts; and • The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through Ku6.com. In addition, Ku6’s ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; • the acceptance of online advertisement as an effective way for business marketing by advertising clients; • the effectiveness of its advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and • the resistance pressure on online advertising prices and limitations on inventory. Maintaining copyright protection controls may prove to be costly and Ku6’s revenue from online marketing services may not be able to offset its cost in acquiring legally licensed content. Due to the prevalence of piracy in China, many online video sites provide links to and host content on their websites which may be protected by copyright. Ku6 has enhanced its monitoring efforts and instituted new policies that prohibit users from uploading copyright-protected content to Ku6.com. And althought Ku6 launched a campaign in November 2009 to delete all illegally uploaded foreign films, television series and other content which may be protected by copyright, we cannot be certain that all such content has been deleted. Ku6 may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared with its competitors who incur lower operating expenses by offering and not monitoring their websites for illegal content. While Ku6 derives most of its revenue from online marketing services, which may not be sufficient to offset the cost of acquiring legally licensed content, its competitors may be able to derive revenue from illegal content which requires little or no capital expenditure. Additionally, Hurray!’s management believes that the acquisition of Ku6 may have an impact on its future liquidity or capital resources as it purchases licensed content for Ku6.com. Hurray! may allocate a significant portion of its working capital to finance such acquisitions, working capital which would otherwise be available for other business segments. Hurray! may also require additional cash resources to operate Ku6. Hurray! cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. If Hurray! is unable to adequately finance its video business, the growth prospects of Ku6 and Hurray! could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Other Risks Related to Our Businesses We face intense competition. The businesses that the Shanda group engage in are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and are subject to changing technology, shifting user needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We have many competitors in different industries, including online game operators, traditional portal operators, traditional search engine operators and e-commerce sites, social networking sites, traditional media companies, and providers of online products and services. Our current and potential competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Established companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and end users, and they can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including by making acquisitions and investing aggressively in research. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products and services or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, and content providers, our revenues and growth rates could decline. Acquisitions and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We may also reorganize our business, including disposition of certain assets. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions to strengthen or supplement our core online interactive entertainment business. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in line with our objective to improve our operating results, we may reorganize our business, including the disposition of certain assets and business units in order to allow management to focus on our core businesses. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology or reorganizing has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include: • implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company; • diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; • coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions; • transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; • retention of employees from the businesses we acquire; • integration of the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resource, and other administrative systems; • liability for activities of the acquired company before and after the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; • litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former shareholders or other third parties; 25 Table of Contents • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • failure to successfully further develop the acquired business. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions, investments and reorganizations could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions or reorganizations could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Also, the anticipated benefit of such acquisitions, investments or reorganizations may not materialize. Furthermore, we may incur significant costs related to such transactions, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses. There can be no assurance that our diversification strategy will achieve its intented strategic objectives or improve our results of operations. We plan to further diversify our business to other related interactive media businesses. For example, in July 2009, we acquired a 52.6% interest in Hurray! (which has subsequently been diluted to approximately 42.0% as of March 31, 2010) and in January 2010, Hurray! acquired a 100% interest in Ku6. In November 2009, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Hunan Broadcasting and Television Group, or Hunan TV, to establish a film and television production and distribution company. Each new business line may require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop a new line of business and integrate it with our operations. We may experience delays, regulatory impediments and other complications in implementing our diversification strategy that could reduce our profitability and ultimately cause the strategy to fail. These complications may include obtaining licenses and registrations, adapting our technology platform, hiring personnel and raising capital. Our acquisition of Hurray! and its subsequent acquisition of Ku6 may have an impact on our profitability as Ku6 makes expenditures to purchase licensed content. Our expansion into new businesses will increase capital expenditures and research and development expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that entertainment content available on our website does not and will not infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be perceived or alleged to infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties and become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property rights of others. For example, in 2003, Actoz and Wemade Entertainment Co., Ltd. filed a lawsuit against us in the Beijing First Intermediate People’s Court alleging copyright infringement and unfair competition claims with respect to Woool. These claims were settled in February 2007. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to monetary damages and be enjoined from using such intellectual property, or we may incur new or additional licensing costs if we wish to continue using the infringing content, be forced to develop or license alternatives or be forced to stop operating such entertainment content, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and require significant attention of management in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including some of our current and potential competitors. To the extent these employees or any employees we may hire in the future are involved in research that is similar to the research that they performed at their former employers, our competitors may file lawsuits or initiate proceedings against us alleging that these employees violated the intellectual property rights, such as trade secret rights, of their former employers. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened claims alleging these types of violations of intellectual property rights, if any such claim arises in the future, litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings may be necessary to retain our ability to offer our current and future games, which could be costly and divert financial and management resources. 26 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property law, as well as non-competition, confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, licensors, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Our employees are generally required to sign agreements acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any ownership rights that they may claim in those works. Despite our precautions, third parties may obtain and use intellectual property that we own or license without our consent. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights may materially and adversely affect our business. For instance, pirate game servers illegally operate unauthorized copies of our online games and enable players to play those games without purchasing prepaid cards for our online games. Despite our efforts to shut down pirate game servers, we believe that a significant number of pirate game servers continue to operate unauthorized copies of our online games. If pirate game servers continue to operate any of our online games, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC are uncertain and do not protect intellectual property rights in this area to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States and other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual properties is difficult and expensive. Any steps we have taken to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual properties may be inadequate. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of Tianqiao Chen, our founder, chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer and president, in our business operations, and rely on his personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, our content providers and service suppliers. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our content offerings. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. Furthermore, we do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. 27 Table of Contents You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by any of the factors identified in this section, including, but not limited to: • our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; • the announcement or introduction of, or updates to, our existing games and other entertainment content by us or our competitors; • technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • governmental regulations; • seasonality effect for our business; • a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust to our users’ spending quickly; • the inability to direct the performance of our independent public subsidiaries, Shanda Games and Hurray!; • the introduction and nationwide roll-out of the third-generation wireless telecommunications network in China; and • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the online entertainment industry and China. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. The PRC government may discontinue the preferential tax treatments or the government financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new enterprise income tax law, or the New EIT Law, as supplemented by various detailed implementation guidance, which became effective as of January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, a preferential tax rate of 15% is applicable to enterprises that qualify as “high and new technology enterprises”, a status reassessed every three years. In addition, an enterprise is entitled to a 10% income tax rate for the year in which it is recognized as a “national key software enterprise”, a status reassessed every year. Shengqu, Shanda Computer, Shanda Networking, Bianfeng, Shanghai Shulong, Chengdu Aurora, Shanghai Holdfast Online Information Technology Co., Ltd., Chengdu Jisheng Technology Co., Ltd., or Chengdu Jisheng, were recognized as “high and new technology enterprises” in 2008 and are entitled to a 15% preferential income tax rate for the three-year period ending December 31, 2010. In addition, Shengqu also qualified as a national key software enterprise in 2008 and 2009, respectively, on December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009. Accordingly, Shengqu was subject to a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2008 and 2009. However, we cannot assure you that these enterprises will be able to maintain their status as “high and new technology enterprises” and/or “national key software enterprise.” If any of these enterprises that qualified as “high and new technology enterprise” or “national key software enterprise” fails to continue to qualify for such status, our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents In 2007, 2008, and 2009, we received aggregate government financial incentives of RMB57.5 million, RMB62.3 million and RMB221.9 million (US$32.5 million), respectively, which were calculated with reference to taxable revenue and taxable income. To be eligible for the government financial incentives, we are required to continue to meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria and to be further subject to the discretion of the municipal governments. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2007, our income before income tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, non-controlling interests and redeemable preferred shares issued by a subsidiary would have been RMB1,364.0 million, a decrease of 4.0% from the reported amount. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2008, our income before tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, non-controlling interests and redeemable preferred shares issued by a subsidiary would have been RMB1,460.1 million, a decrease of 4.1 % from the reported amount. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2009, our income before tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, non-controlling interests and redeemable preferred shares issued by a subsidiary would have been RMB2,034.0 million (US$298.0 million), a decrease of 9.8% from the reported amount. As the receipt of these government financial incentives is subject to periodic time lags and inconsistent municipal government practice on payment times, for so long as we continue to receive these government financial incentives, our net income in a particular quarter may be higher or lower relative to other quarters based on the potentially uneven receipt by us of these government financial incentives in addition to any business or operating related factors we may otherwise experience. Moreover, the central government or municipal governments could determine at any time to eliminate or reduce these government financial incentives, generally with prospective effect. We cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives in the future. The discontinuation or reduction of these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are significant uncertainties under the New EIT Law relating to our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities. Under the New EIT Law, the profits of a foreign invested enterprise which are distributed to its immediate holding company outside the PRC will be subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. Pursuant to a special arrangement between Hong Kong and the PRC, such rate is lowered to 5% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of the PRC companies. However, according to a tax circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation in February 2009, if the main purpose of an offshore arrangement is to obtain a preferential tax treatment, the PRC tax authorities have the discretion to adjust the preferential tax rate enjoyed by the relevant offshore entity. In addition, under the New EIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered to be PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes. For additional details on the preferential tax status, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation — PRC Enterprise Income Tax” and “Item 10. Additional Information — Exchange Controls.” Although we are a Cayman Islands company and wholly own subsidiaries incorporated in Hong Kong, the PRC tax authorities may regard the main purpose of these Hong Kong entities as obtaining a lower withholding tax rate of 5%. As a result, the PRC tax authorities could levy a higher withholding tax rate to dividends received by our wholly-owned subsidiaries incorporated in Hong Kong from our PRC subsidiaries. In addition, a substantial majority of the members of our management team are located in China. Under current PRC laws and regulations, it is also uncertain whether we would be deemed PRC tax resident enterprises under the New EIT Law. If we are deemed PRC tax resident enterprises, our global income will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%. 29 Table of Contents It is not clear whether or not we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ending December 31, 2009. It is not clear whether or not we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ending December 31, 2009. That determination is subject to uncertainty because it is not clear how the VIE agreements between the PRC operating companies and us will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules, and because of the uncertainty with respect to the valuation of our assets as well as the uncertain characterization of our assets and income, including goodwill, for purposes of the PFIC rules. If we are or were to become a PFIC, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to additional reporting requirements. PFIC classification is tested annually, and our classification will therefore depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our shares and ADSs, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for 2009 or that we will not be a PFIC for 2010 or any future taxable year. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see the section entitled “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” We may need to record impairment charges to earnings if our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets is determined to be impaired. We acquire, invest in or license content from various content providers and record any acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies and acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet in connection with such acquisitions, investments and licensing, respectively. We are required to review our acquisition goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our investments in affiliate companies and acquired intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, including a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slow down in our industry, which may result from recent global economic slowdown. If the carrying value of our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets were determined to be impaired, we would be required to write down the carrying value. For example, we completed the purchase of a 29.9% equity stake in Actoz, the co-owner of Mir II, in February 2005, for a total consideration of RMB878 million (US$106.1 million), which represented an 81% premium over the open market price at the time that we entered into the purchase agreement in October 2004. In the fourth quarter of 2005, however, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of RMB521.5 million (US$64.6 million) to reflect the fair value of our 38.1% stake in Actoz. We recognized the impairment charge primarily as a result of the continued decline in royalties payable to Actoz from our operation of Mir II in China. The decision to recognize impairment was also influenced by the decline in the market price for shares of Actoz, which in the fourth quarter of 2005 was determined to be other than temporary, mainly due to the continued decline in Mir II royalties. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to effectively integrate the operation of the acquired companies into our own and achieve the synergies contemplated at the time of entering into these transactions. If we are unable to achieve the synergies contemplated at the time of acquiring these companies, the carrying value of the acquired companies may not be recoverable. We are required by U.S. GAAP to review the impairment of goodwill at least on an annual basis. If an impairment is determined and charged to the earnings in our financial statements, we would be required to record charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We may lose the ability to consolidate certain of our businesses in our financial statements if our ownership percentage in those businesses is diluted. We currently consolidate several businesses in which we hold less than 100% of the outstanding equity interests. These businesses may issue stock in connection with business transactions that could dilute our ownership percentage such that we no longer control those businesses and in which event we would have to deconsolidate them from our financial statements. For example, in June 2009, we entered into a tender offer agreement with Hurray! under which we commenced a tender offer to acquire at least 51% of Hurray!’s outstanding ordinary shares. We successfully completed the tender offer in July 2009, acquiring 52.6% of Hurray!’s outstanding ordinary shares, and began consolidating Hurray! in our financial statements. In January 2010, Hurray! issued common stock in connection with the acquisition of Ku6, which diluted our ownership percentage. As of March 31, 2010, we owned approximately 42.0% of Hurray!’s outstanding ordinary shares but appointed a majority of Hurray!’s directors. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, we consolidated Hurray! in our financial statements. If we do not increase our holdings in Hurray! or if Hurray! issues additional common stock for any number of reasons, we may have to deconsolidate Hurray! Holding. Such a deconsolidation of Hurray! or our other businesses could affect our quarter over quarter financial comparison and could have a material and adverse impact on our financial statements. 30 Table of Contents While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”), as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their respective annual reports. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm attested as to the effectiveness of our internal control and reported that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. Risks Relating to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online culture industry, including online game, online literature and online video, we could be subject to severe penalties. On December 11, 2001, the PRC State Counsel promulgated the Regulations for the Administration of Foreign-invested Telecommunications Enterprises, or the FITE Regulations, which became effective on January 1, 2002 and were subsequently amended on September 10, 2008. Under the FITE Regulations, foreign ownership of companies that provide value-added telecommunications services is limited to 50%. In addition, foreign and foreign-invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the licenses required to operate online culture products (including online games, literature and video) in China or to provide Internet information content, such as online advertising. Accordingly, we operate our Internet-related businesses in China through our PRC operating companies, which are VIEs that are PRC domestic companies owned principally or completely by certain of our PRC employees, shareholders or PRC employees of our directly-owned subsidiaries. We control these companies and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the respective companies and their individual owners, but we have no equity control over these companies. Such restrictions and arrangements are prevalent in other PRC companies we have acquired. See “Item 4.C. Organizational Structure.” On July 13, 2006, the MIIT issued the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services, or the MIIT Circular 2006. According to the MIIT Circular 2006, since the FITE Regulations went into effect, some foreign investors had engaged in value-added telecommunications services illegally by working with domestic value-added telecommunications enterprises to circumvent the requirements of the FITE Regulations by delegating domain names and licensing trademarks. In order to further strengthen the administration of FITEs, the MIIT Circular 2006 provides that any domain name or trademark used by a value-added telecommunications carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholders. The MIIT Circular 2006 also provides that the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecommunications carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecommunications services that the carrier has been approved to provide. In addition, value-added telecommunications carriers are required to establish or improve the measures of ensuring network security. As to the companies which have obtained the operating licenses for value-added telecommunications services, they are required to conduct self-examination and self-correction according to the said requirements and report the result of such self-examination and self-correction to the provincial branches of the MIIT. 31 Table of Contents We cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, including without limitation the requirements described in the MIIT Circular 2006, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. For example, as some of the domain names and trademarks that Shanda Games uses in its operations are not owned by Shanghai Shulong or its shareholders, Shanda Games may be in violation of the provisions of the MIIT Circular 2006. If any of our businesses is determined not to be in compliance with the MIIT Circular 2006, the PRC government could take a number of regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business, including but not limited to: levying fines, revoking its business and operating licenses, requiring it to discontinue or restrict its operations, blocking its website, requiring us to restructure our business or imposing additional conditions or requirements with which it may not be able to comply. We may also encounter difficulties in obtaining performance under or enforcement of related contracts. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, except for otherwise disclosed in this annual report, in all material aspects, (1) the ownership structures of our company, Shanda Computer, Shengqu, Shengting and our PRC operating companies, other than the Hurray! entities, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations; (2) our contractual arrangements with Shanda Networking, Shanghai Shulong, Hongwen and their respective shareholders are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect; and (3) the business operations of our company, Shanda Computer, Shengqu, Shengting and our PRC operating companies, other than the Hurray! entities, as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations. Additionally, in the opinion of Hurray!’s management, except for otherwise disclosed in this annual report, in all material aspects, (1) the ownership structures of Hurray! Holding, the Hurray! entities and the Hurray! VIEs are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations; (2) Hurray!’s contractual arrangements with the Hurray! VIEs and their respective shareholders are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect; and (3) the business operations of Hurray! Holding, the Hurray! entities and the Hurray! VIEs, as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view that is contrary to our view. If we, our subsidiaries or any of our PRC operating companies are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking our PRC operating companies’ business and operating licenses; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC operating companies’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, our subsidiaries or any of our PRC operating companies may not be able to comply; • requiring us, our subsidiaries or any of our PRC operating companies to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer and the price of our ADSs to decline. 32 Table of Contents The contractual arrangements related to critical aspects of our operations with our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders to operate our business. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over our PRC operating companies. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly or indirectly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the boards of our PRC operating companies, which, in turn, could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our PRC operating companies or their respective shareholders fails to perform its, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may include seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, any of which may not be effective. Pursuant to equity pledge agreements, the shareholders of our PRC operating companies have pledged their ordinary shares in our PRC operating companies to several of our PRC subsidiaries. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, which became effective October 1, 2007, a pledge is created only when such pledge is registered with the relevant Administration for Industry and Commerce office. We have registered the equity pledges of the shareholders of Shanda Networking, Shanghai Shulong and Hongwen with the relevant Administration for Industry and Commerce. Hurray! is in the process of registering the equity pledges of the Hurray! VIEs with the relevant Administration for Industry and Commerce. However, all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to exert effective control over our PRC operating companies, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. Shareholders of our PRC operating companies may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company. We conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate substantially all of our revenues, through our PRC operating companies. Our control over these entities is based upon the VIE agreements which are contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders that provide us with the substantial ability to control our PRC operating companies. These shareholders may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company. For example, the two shareholders of Shanda Networking, Tianqiao Chen and Danian Chen, are also our controlling shareholders. As a result, they may be able to cause the contractual arrangements they have entered into with us to be amended in a manner to maximize their interest, economically or otherwise, even if such amendment is contrary to the interest of our company and our other shareholders. Although our audit committee charter requires the approval of our audit committee, which is comprised of our independent directors, to make any amendment to these agreements, we cannot assure you that such mechanism will be effective in preventing such amendment. Furthermore, the shareholders of our PRC operating companies may decide to breach their contracts with us if they believe such action furthers their own interest, or if they otherwise act in bad faith. In particular, the two shareholders of Shanghai Shulong, Dongxu Wang and Yingfeng Zhang and the two shareholders of Hongwen, Dongxu Wang and Mingfeng Chen are our employees. They are not our directors or principal shareholders. Therefore, they do not owe any fiduciary duty to our company and given that their economic stake in us is relatively small compared to their ownership interest in Shanghai Shulong and Hongwen, they may take actions that adversely affect us. If the shareholders of our PRC operating companies breach their contracts with us or otherwise have disputes with us, we may have to initiate legal proceedings, which involves significant uncertainty. Such disputes and proceedings may significantly disrupt our business operations, adversely affect our ability to control our PRC operating companies, and we cannot assure you that the outcome of such disputes and proceedings will be in our favor. 33 Table of Contents Our arrangements with our PRC operating companies may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities for transfer pricing adjustments. We also could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with our PRC operating companies were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although we based our contractual arrangements on those of similar businesses, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recorded by our PRC operating companies, which could adversely affect us by: • increasing our PRC operating companies’ tax liability without reducing our PRC subsidiaries’ tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our PRC operating companies for under-paid taxes; or • limiting our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to maintain preferential tax treatments and government financial incentives, if the transfer pricing adjustment is significant. As a result, any transfer pricing adjustment could have a material and adverse impact upon our financial condition. Our corporate structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese affiliated entity to another in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our PRC operating companies. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to allow us to pay dividends on the shares underlying our ADSs and the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur, or financing we may need for operations other than through our PRC subsidiaries. If our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to the intermediate holding company and thus to us. We generate substantially all of our revenues through contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies. However, PRC governmental authorities may require us to amend these contractual arrangements in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, our PRC subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances, which restricted portion amounted to approximately RMB2,550.0 million (US$373.6 million), or 22.1%, of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2009. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay debt or dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In addition, any transfer of funds from us to any of our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. It is not permitted under PRC law for our PRC companies to directly lend money to each other. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our company to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC companies could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese entity to another in a timely manner. 34 Table of Contents Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in our PRC subsidiaries. In October 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, which states that if PRC residents use assets or ordinary shares in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or ordinary shares of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under this regulation, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government including restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. We are committed to complying with and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulations will comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 or other related rules. Any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in our PRC subsidiaries. The laws and regulations governing the online entertainment industry in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating companies fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. The online entertainment industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the Ministry of Culture, or the MOC, the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or the SARFT, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to promulgate and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and the online entertainment industry. Our PRC operating companies are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their services. For example, an Internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain a value-added telecommunications business operation license, or ICP license, from the MIIT or its local offices in order to engage in any commercial operations online within China. An online game operator must also obtain an Internet culture operation license from the MOC, an Internet publishing license from the GAPP in order to distribute games through the Internet and approval from the MIIT to provide online bulletin board services. Shanghai Shulong currently holds an ICP license as well as the Internet culture operation license. Chengdu Aurora currently holds a regional ICP license as well as an Internet culture operation license. Shanghai Shulong currently does not hold an Internet publishing license and publishes its online games through cooperation with Shanda Networking, which holds such a license. In addition, Shanghai Shulong and Chengdu Aurora are in the process of applying for approval to provide online bulletin board services. If any of our PRC operating companies fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals or if our practice is later challenged by government authorities, they may also be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation of or restriction on our operations. Any such disruption in business operations would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents As the online entertainment industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time. For example, in December 2009, the Also, different regulatory authorities may have different views regarding the licensing requirements for the operation of online entertainment and related businesses. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the online entertainment industry and related businesses. While we believe that we comply with all material respects with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. If we are required to comply with or are found to violate any laws or regulations governing virtual currency, pre-paid card issuance and usage, online payment or money laundering, we may have to obtain additional licenses or approvals, be forced to change our current business practice, or be subject to certain penalties. On April 16, 2009, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, issued a notice regarding the payment and clearance business carried out by non-financial institutions, or the PBOC Notice. The PBOC Notice required non-financial institutions which engage in payment and clearance business to register with PBOC before July 31, 2009. Because certain services currently provided by Shanda Online may be subject to the requirements of the PBOC Notice, Shengfutong, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Shanda Online has registered with PBOC. However, if PBOC requires Shanda Online to obtain additional licenses or approvals for its services, there is no guarantee that Shanda Online will be able to obtain such licenses or approvals. For example, in December 2009, the PBOC announced plans to require online payment service businesses to hold a license to operate its business. We cannot assure you that, if required, Shanda Online will be able to obtain such a license. In the event that Shanda Online fails to obtain any or all of the licenses or approvals required by PBOC, our business and financial condition, operations results and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. On June 4, 2009, the MOC and the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, jointly issued a notice regarding strengthening online game virtual currency administration, or the Virtual Currency Notice. The Virtual Currency Notice requires enterprises which issue online game virtual currency (in the form of pre-paid card, pre-payment or pre-paid card point) or provide online game virtual currency transaction services, to apply for approval from the MOC through its provincial branches within 3 months following the date of the Virtual Currency Notice. Any enterprises which fail to submit the application will be subject to sanctions. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice regulates, among other items, the amount of virtual currency an enterprise can issue, the retention period of user record, the function of virtual currency, and the return of unused virtual currency upon termination of online services. The Virtual Currency Notice prohibits enterprises, which provide online game virtual currency transaction services, from providing transaction services to players under the age of 18. It also prohibits online game operators from awarding in-game items or virtual currency to players based on random selection through lucky draws, wagers or lotteries. Shanghai Shulong and Chengdu Aurora have applied for and obtained the above mentioned approval for its online game virtual currency related businesses. If our current or future operations are found to violate the Virtual Currency Notice or any other related regulations, our business and financial condition, operation results and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity in China has resulted in additional government regulations directed at online entertainment. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly provoked by, or committed in connection with, online entertainment, especially online games. In addition, there have been widespread negative media reports that focus on how online games are addictive and how excessive game playing could distract students and interfere with their education. Certain non-governmental organizations may also organize protests or publicity campaigns against online game companies in order to protect youth from the risk of becoming addicted to certain online games. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to such games, particularly by minors. In 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT, jointly issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an “anti-fatigue compliance system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue compliance system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy”, three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing”, and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. It is unclear whether these restrictions would be expanded to apply to adult game players in the future. More stringent government regulations, including stricter anti-fatigue rules, could discourage game players from playing Shanda Games’s games, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation recently announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. However, it is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on Shanda Games’s game players or our business. Furthermore, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where Shanda Games licenses out its online games, which could materially and adversely affect its overseas licensing revenues. Shanda Games may be required to reapply for approvals for imported online game products. The MOC issued a Circular Concerning the Examination and Declaration of Imported Online Game Products on April 24, 2009. According to this circular, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the game’s existing import approval will be automatically revoked and the new operator must apply to the MOC for a new approval for the same game. As this circular is newly issued, it remains unclear how and to what extent this circular will be implemented or enforced. On September 28, 2009, the GAPP, together with two other government authorities, issued a circular (Xin Chu Lian [2009] No. 13) which contains a similar provision to the MOC circular mentioned above. The GAPP circular also requires that, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the new operator must apply to the GAPP for a new approval for the same game, and the operation of the online game should be suspended until the GAPP approves the change in operator. Shanda Games currently operates substantially all of its imported online games under import approvals granted by the MOC to Shanda Networking. Under the above mentioned circulars, Shanda Games may be required to reapply to the GAPP and MOC for approvals for imported online games granted to any of its affiliates. Shanda Games is committed to complying with the requirements of this circular. However, we cannot assure you that Shanda Games will succeed in obtaining all the approvals as required by this circular in time or at all. If Shanda Games fails to comply with the requirements of this circular or fail to obtain all the approvals for its imported online games, it may be subject to fines, revocation of its operating licenses, the discontinuation or restrictions on its operations and other sanctions that may be imposed by the GAPP and the MOC. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The PRC government has tightened its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently one of the primary venues for Shanda Games’s users to play online games. Internet cafes are one of the primary places where Shanda Games’s games are played. In March 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafes. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafes have been closed. The PRC government has also imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafes. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafes, may slow down the growth of Internet cafes. In February 2004, the government agencies in charge of Internet cafe licensing jointly issued a notice suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses for a period of six months. In February 2007, 14 PRC government departments jointly issued a circular to strengthen the regulation of Internet cafes and online games. According to the circular, local authorities were banned from issuing new Internet cafe licenses for the remainder of 2007. Since this ban was imposed in 2007, to our knowledge, local authorities have not issued new Internet cafe licenses and it is unclear when local authorities will be permitted to issue new licenses again. In March 2010, the Ministry of Culture issued a circular to increase the punishment on Internet cafes which allow minors to enter and use Internet in their cafes. According to this circular, among other things, the authorities may revoke an Internet Cafe’s Internet culture operation license if that Internet cafe allows three or more minors to enter and use Internet in its cafe at one time. Governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as the customers’ age limit and hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to Internet cafes. Since a substantial portion of our users play our games in Internet cafes, any reduction in the number, or slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafes in China, or any new regulatory restrictions on their operations, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and growth prospects. 37 Table of Contents The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content deemed to be inappropriate. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information, published works or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it believes violates PRC law. The MIIT, the GAPP and the MOC have promulgated regulations that prohibit games from being distributed through the Internet if the games contain content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of China, or compromise state security or secrets. In addition, certain PRC social organizations have recently discussed the possibility of implementing a rating system for online entertainment. The effect that such a system could have on our business is unclear. If any content we offer were deemed to violate any such content restrictions, we would not obtain the GAPP approval, may not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of our license for operating such online entertainment content, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for unlawful actions of our users or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. Furthermore, we may be required to delete content that violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our online entertainment content or other services in China. In February 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, the MOC, the MIIT and the GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling. In order to clamp down on online games that involve gambling and online betting as well as address concerns that “virtual currency” might be used for money laundering or illicit trade, the circular (i) requires that online entertainment operators shall not charge commissions that employ “virtual currency” or other means in relation to winning or losing of games; (ii) requires online entertainment operators to set up quantity limits in guessing and betting games by using virtual currency; (iii) bans the exchange of “virtual currency” into real currencies or properties; and (iv) bans the provision of services for virtual currency transfer among game players. In February 2007, 14 PRC regulatory authorities jointly promulgated a circular with regard to further strengthening management of Internet cafes and online entertainment, according to which “virtual currency” shall be strictly regulated by the PBOC, and in particular: (i) the aggregate amount of “virtual currency” issued by online entertainment operators and the amount of “virtual currency” purchased by each individual online game player shall be restricted; (ii) “virtual currency” issued by online entertainment operators can only be used for purchasing virtual products and services provided by the online entertainment operators and shall not be used for purchasing tangible or physical products; (iii) the price for converting “virtual currency” back into the official currency by consumers shall not exceed the respective original purchase price; and (iv) trading of “virtual currency” is banned. We believe our online entertainment operations are in compliance with the provisions of these two circulars in all material aspects. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of these two circulars, and we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem our online operations to be in violation of either of these two circulars, the PBOC may confiscate the revenues generated through these illegal activities and/or impose fines on us in accordance with the Law of the PBOC and our business will be materially and adversely affected. It is unclear whether we will be subject to other penalties under current PRC laws. 38 Table of Contents Currently there are no laws or regulations in the PRC specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online entertainment businesses may have for virtual assets. Our online entertainment offerings may allow users to acquire virtual assets, for which there are no governing laws or regulations in China. For example, in the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and in some cases are exchanged between players for monetary value. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently, there are no PRC laws or regulations specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, it is unclear who is the legal owner of virtual assets and whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by our online users and may be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games has been involved in a number of lawsuits related to its in-game items in its online games, most of which have been settled and some of which are ongoing. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as Shanda Games would have any liability to game players or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments by PRC courts regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required online game operators to return such lost virtual items or be liable for the loss and damage incurred therefrom. Due to our leading position in several Internet-related industries, we may be subject to claims under the Anti-Monopoly Law. The new Anti-Monopoly Law (“AML”) was passed by the National People’s Congress on August 30, 2007 and came into effect on August 1, 2008. While certain aspects of the AML are unclear and dependent on subsequent interpretation and development, the law sets forth the prohibited conduct (referred to as “Monopolistic Acts”), the enforcement mechanisms, and the penalties for those who violate its provisions. The AML prohibits Monopolistic Acts, including “monopoly agreements,” abuse of a dominant market position, and certain “concentrations”, which result or could result in the elimination or restriction of competition. The law also provides that the State Council will establish an Anti-Monopoly Commission with authority to make competition policy, publish guidelines, and lead and coordinate anti-monopoly enforcement work. As of the date of this annual report, there have been only a limited number of enforcement actions and claims raised under the AML. It remains to be seen how the AML will be implemented in practice and what it will mean for us and other companies in China. Nevertheless, given the leading position several of our businesses have in the Chinese online entertainment markets, it is possible that some of our competitors and/or our users may seek to take advantage of the AML to make claims against us, which may have an adverse impact on our business, operation and financial conditions. The PRC government may unintentionally restrict access to our online entertainment content. The MIIT issued a Circular regarding the Pre-installment of Green Web Filter Software on Computers on May 19, 2009. According to this circular, starting from July 1, 2009, all computers sold in China are required to be installed with government-designated software to block “unhealthy words or pictures.” However, according to certain media reports, testing by experts suggest that the software, called Green Dam — Youth Escort, may be used to censor other websites deemed inappropriate by the government, disable programs when people input sensitive words, monitor personal communications and track where people surf on the Internet. On August 13, 2009, the minister of the MIIT announced that the Chinese government will not require all computers sold in China to be installed with the filter software, only computers used in schools, Internet cafes and other public places will be required to be installed with the filter software in order to prevent young people from being harmed by unhealthy online content. 39 Table of Contents It is unclear how and to what extent it may be implemented by the MIIT. Although this circular is not intended to block access to online games, if it is strictly implemented, it could potentially discourage or restrict the use of the Internet by users of our online entertainment content, and consequently have an adverse impact on our business, operation and financial conditions. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal conditions and developments in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including in the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth since the late 1970’s, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented numerous measures to encourage economic growth and to guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, but also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect general economic conditions in China and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A severe and prolonged global economic recession and the corresponding slowdown in the Chinese economy could affect our business. The effect of the recent global financial crisis has persisted, with most of the world’s major economies remaining in recession in 2010. While there has been improvement in some areas, it is still unclear whether the recovery is sustainable. There are uncertainties over the impact of the proposed Euro 110 billion bailout of Greece by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund and the impact this may have on the global economy. There is also considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the global housing and mortgage markets and the European debt crisis have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The grim economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. The Chinese economy also faces challenges. The stimulus plans and other measures implemented by the Chinese government may not avert an economic downturn amid a severe and prolonged global economic recession. Any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our customers may reduce or delay spending with us, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing customers. 40 Table of Contents The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic and business matters. The overall effect of legislation since 1979 has been a significant enhancement of the protections afforded to various forms of foreign-invested enterprises in mainland China. Our PRC subsidiaries are wholly foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated in mainland China and wholly-owned by foreign investors. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in mainland China in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Most of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees to foreign game licensors, and our PRC operating companies may purchase foreign exchange for payment of license fees to foreign game licensors without the approval of SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are subject to limitations and require registration with or approval by the relevant PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of foreign currency loans, those loans cannot exceed certain statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions, those capital contributions must be approved by the MOFCOM. Our ability to use the U.S. dollar proceeds of the sale of our equity or debt to finance our business activities conducted through our PRC subsidiaries will depend on our ability to obtain these governmental registrations or approvals. In addition, because of the regulatory issues related to foreign currency loans to, and foreign investment in, domestic PRC enterprises, we may not be able to finance our PRC operating companies’ operations by loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these governmental registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Most of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect our costs and operating margins. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in Renminbi terms. Where our operations conducted in Renminbi are reported in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations could result in changes in reported results which do not reflect changes in the underlying operations. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a more than 21% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as of March 31, 2010. While the international reaction to the 41 Table of Contents Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. On the other hand, as most of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, any potential future devaluation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations. Moreover, we have material monetary assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, which mainly consist of our bank deposits and the convertible notes. The fluctuation of foreign exchange rate affects the value of these monetary assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Generally, an appreciation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange loss for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange gain for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. On the contrary, a devaluation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange gain for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange loss for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge all or part of our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Conversely, an increase in the value of the Renminbi could increase our reported earnings in U.S. dollar terms without a fundamental change in our business or operating performance. Since our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, our valuation could be materially and adversely affected by the devaluation of the Renminbi if U.S. investors analyze our value based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation in China and measures to contain inflation could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in our costs, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets, and restrictions on state bank lending. Such austerity measures can lead to a slowing of economic growth. A slowdown in the PRC economy could also materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases. Our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters, avian influenza, or avian flu, SARS, H1N1 influenza, or H1N1 flu (also known as swine flu), or other epidemics or outbreaks. On April 14, 2010, China experienced an earthquake with a reported magnitude of 6.9 on the Richter scale in Qinghai Province, resulting in the death of over 2,000 people and on May 12, 2008, China experienced an earthquake with a reported magnitude of 8.0 on the Richter scale in Sichuan Province, resulting in the death of tens of thousands of people. As a result of the 2010 and 2008 earthquakes, we observed a one- and three-day period, respectively, of national mourning for the victims, during which several of our businesses suspended online activities, in accordance with a public notice issued by the PRC government. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. Since April 2009, there have been reports on the occurrences of H1N1 flu in Mexico, the United States, China and certain other countries and regions around the world. An outbreak of avian flu or H1N1 flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 that affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries and regions, would also have similar adverse effects. These natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future natural disasters or outbreak of avian flu, H1N1 flu, SARS or any other epidemic. 42 Table of Contents We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Notice 78. Under Notice 78, PRC individuals who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted shares or stock options pursuant to our share incentive plan are subject to Notice 78 because we are an overseas listed company. However, in practice, there exist significant uncertainties with regard to the interpretation and implementation of Notice 78. We are committed to complying with the requirements of Notice 78. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our Chinese employees will be able to complete, qualify under, or obtain any registration required by Notice 78. In particular, if we and/or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Notice 78, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities, as a result of which our business operations and employee option plans could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our ADSs One shareholder has significant control over the outcome of our shareholder votes. As of December 31, 2009, Premium Lead Company Limited, or Premium Lead, whose beneficial owner is Tianqiao Chen, our chairman and chief executive officer, owned approximately 44.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, Premium Lead has and is expected to maintain significant control over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. If Premium Lead, which holds approximately 44.5% of our ordinary shares as of December 31, 2009, or any other major shareholder chooses to dispose of a material portion of the ordinary shares that it holds, the prevailing market price for our securities may decline. On September 19, 2007, Skyline Media Limited, or Skyline Media, sold 9,131,878 of our ordinary shares pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. On the day of this sale, the market price for our ordinary shares decreased by approximately 6.8%. If Premium Lead, to whom Skyline Media transferred 60,000,000 of our ordinary shares on December 27, 2007 and whose beneficial owner is Tianqiao Chen, our chairman and chief executive officer, or any other major shareholder, chooses to sell a material portion of the ordinary shares that it holds, or indicates its intention to do so, the prevailing market price for our securities may decline. The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since we completed our initial public offering in May 2004, the sale prices of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from US$10.58 to US$63.66 per ADS and the last reported sale price on May 14, 2010 was US$43.50. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including among other factors: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding intellectual property rights litigation; 43 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our products; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. The price of our ADSs also could be affected by possible sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs by investors who view our 2% convertible senior notes due 2011, or the convertible notes, as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage activity involving our ordinary shares and ADSs that we believe has developed as a result of the issuance of the convertible notes. Conversion of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Under certain circumstances, upon conversion of the convertible notes, we have the right to deliver our ordinary shares or ADSs representing such ordinary shares, in lieu of cash. If we decide to deliver ordinary shares or ADSs representing such ordinary shares, the ownership interests of existing holders of ADSs may be diluted. Any sales in the public market of our ADSs issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ADSs. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the notes into any ordinary shares or ADSs representing such ordinary shares could depress the price of our ADSs. We may be unable to raise the funds to pay interest on the convertible notes or to purchase the convertible notes on the purchase dates or upon a fundamental change. The convertible notes bear interest at an annual rate of 2.0%, payable semi-annually, and we in certain circumstances are obligated to pay additional interest. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the convertible notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their convertible notes. In addition, upon conversion of the convertible notes, we will pay the principal amount in cash. We used all of the net proceeds from the sale of the convertible notes, together with cash on hand, to repurchase US$175.0 million worth of our ADSs pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase program. We may not have sufficient funds for any required repurchase of the convertible notes or required payment of principal or interest, and we may have to obtain financing to make payments under the convertible notes. If we fail to pay interest or principal on the convertible notes or repurchase the convertible notes when required, we will be in default under the indenture governing the convertible notes. Provisions of the convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third-party. Certain provisions of the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a “fundamental change”, holders of the convertible notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion or provide for conversion into the acquirer’s capital stock in the event of certain fundamental changes. 44 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer with ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow its home country practice must submit to the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each NASDAQ requirement with which it does not comply followed by a description of its applicable home country practice. As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands with ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we intend to follow our home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements that mandate that: • our board of directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors; • our directors be selected or nominated by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors; • our board adopt a formal written charter or board resolution addressing the director nominations process and such related matters as may be required under the U.S. federal securities laws; and • the compensation of our executive officers be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. As we are a Cayman Islands company, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in the federal court of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a public company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 45 Table of Contents In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state due to the lack of reciprocal treaty in the Cayman Islands or the PRC providing statutory recognition of judgments obtained in the United States. The PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons who reside outside the United States predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third-party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, the following: • provisions that restrict the ability of our shareholders to call meetings and to propose special matters for consideration at shareholder meetings; and • provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. A holder of our ADSs may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast, or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. 46 Table of Contents We may be required to withhold PRC income tax on the dividends we pay you (if any), and any gain you realize on the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the New EIT Law, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. See “— Risks Relating to Our Business—There are significant uncertainties under the New EIT Law relating to our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities.” If we are so treated by the PRC tax authorities, we would be obligated to withhold PRC income tax on payments of dividends on our shares and/or ADSs to investors that are non-resident enterprises of the PRC, because the dividends payable on our ordinary shares and/or ADSs would be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC. The withholding tax rate depends on the provisions of the bilateral tax treaty, if any, between the PRC and the jurisdiction where the non-resident enterprise is incorporated. For example, for non-resident enterprises located in Hong Kong which own more than 25% of the shares or equity interest in a domestic PRC company, the rate is 5%, and for non-resident enterprises located in United States, the rate would be 10%. If the jurisdiction where the non-resident enterprise is incorporated does not have a bilateral tax treaty with the PRC, such as the Cayman Islands, a uniform rate of 10% will apply. In addition, any gain realized by any investors who are non-resident enterprises of the PRC from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs could be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Moreover, under the PRC Individual Income Tax Law, or IITL, non-resident individual investors are required to pay PRC individual income tax on interests or dividends payable to the investors or any capital gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs if such gains are deemed income derived from sources within the PRC. A non-resident individual refers to an individual who has no domicile in China and does not stay within the territory of PRC or who has no domicile in PRC and has stayed within the PRC for less than one year. Pursuant to the IITL and its implementation rules, for purposes of the PRC capital gains tax, the taxable income will be the balance of the total income obtained from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs minus all the costs and expenses that are permitted under PRC tax laws to be deducted from the income. Therefore, if we are considered as a PRC resident enterprise and dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares and/or ADSs and the gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs are considered income derived from sources within the PRC by relevant competent PRC tax authorities, such gains earned by non-resident individuals may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. The foregoing PRC withholding tax would reduce your investment return on our ordinary shares and/or ADSs and may also materially and adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer, or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 47 Table of Contents 