D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Online Game Business We depend substantially on Shanda Games’ online game business. In 2008, we commenced a reorganization of our businesses, which included the transfer of substantially all of our assets and liabilities related to our massively multi-player online role-playing game, or MMORPG, and advanced casual game businesses to a newly established legal entity, Shanda Games. “Advanced casual game” refers to a more sophisticated sub-category of casual games which are generally less time consuming and require less focus and attention than MMORPGs but possess certain elements of MMORPGs including a story line, elaborate graphics, availability of virtual items and frequent interactions among game players. In September 2009, Shanda Games completed its initial public offering of its ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As of December 31, 2010, we owned approximately 72.1% of Shanda Games’ outstanding ordinary shares. We are dependent upon Shanda Games’ online game business for a substantial majority of our net revenues. In 2009 and 2010, Shanda Games’ business accounted for approximately 91.8% and 80.8%, respectively, of our net revenues. We expect to continue to derive a substantial majority of our net revenues from Shanda Games in the near term. Thus, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by any factor that contributes to a decline in revenues from Shanda Games. Shanda Games depends substantially on two MMORPGs, which accounted for approximately 78.2% and 66.8% of its net revenues in 2009 and 2010, respectively, and 71.5% and 54.0% of our net revenues in 2009 and 2010, respectively, and have finite commercial lifespans. 9 Table of Contents Mir II and Woool, which are two of Shanda Games’ MMORPGs, contributed approximately 56.4% and 21.8% of Shanda Games’ net revenues, respectively, in 2009 and 45.7% and 21.1% of Shanda Games’ net revenues, respectively, in 2010. In turn, Mir II and Woool contributed approximately 51.6% and 19.9% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2009 and 37.0% and 17.0% of our net revenues, respectively, in 2010. Although we expect the percentage of Shanda Games’ net revenues generated from Mir II and Woool to decrease, we expect Shanda Games to continue to derive a substantial majority of its net revenues from these games in the near term. Thus, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by any factor that contributes to a decline in revenues from Mir II or Woool, including: • any reduction in purchases of virtual items by Mir II or Woool players; • a decrease in the popularity of either game in China due to increased competition or other factors; • the loss of its rights to operate either game due to a termination of a license or other reasons; • failure to improve, update or enhance Mir II or Woool in a timely manner; or • any lasting or prolonged server interruption due to network failures or other factors or any other adverse developments specific to Mir II or Woool. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, Shanda Games introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game players and led to some game players ceasing to purchase in-game items. “Expansion pack” refers to an addition to an existing game that usually includes new game areas, weapons, objects and/or an extended story line to a complete and already released game. Primarily as a result of the introduction of that expansion pack, Shanda Games’ revenues in the first quarter of 2010 decreased by approximately 14% from the revenues in the last quarter of 2009 and our financial results have been adversely affected. Similar to other online games, Mir II and Woool have finite commercial lifespans. Shanda Games believes that Mir II and Woool, which were launched in 2001 and 2003, respectively, are in the more mature stages of their commercial lifespans. If Shanda Games is not able to extend the commercial lifespans of Mir II and Woool, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Shanda Games’ future success relies on developing and sourcing new online games. To remain competitive, Shanda Games must continue to develop and source new online games that appeal to game players. Shanda Games develops and sources new online games through its multi-channel strategy, including in-house development, licensing, investments and acquisitions, and cooperation. However, we cannot assure you that Shanda Games will be successful in executing such a strategy. If Shanda Games fails to do so, our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. The following summarizes risks related to Shanda Games’ multi-channel strategy. In-house development of new online games and introduction of expansion packs for Shanda Games’ existing online games. Shanda Games must continue to successfully develop new online games in-house to expand its game portfolio and introduce updates and expansion packs, which are more substantial enhancements than updates, for its existing games to extend their commercial lifespans. Shanda Games’ ability to successfully develop new online games in-house will largely depend on its ability to (i) anticipate and effectively respond to changing game player interests and preferences and technological advances in a timely manner, (ii) attract, retain and motivate talented online game development personnel and (iii) effectively execute its online game development plans. In-house development requires a substantial initial investment prior to the launch of a game, as well as a significant commitment of future resources to produce updates and expansion packs. Shanda Games’ ability to introduce successful updates and expansion packs for its existing online games will also depend on its ability to collect and analyze user behavior data and feedback from the game player community in a timely manner and to effectively incorporate features into its updates and expansion packs to improve the variety and attractiveness of its virtual items. We cannot assure you that Shanda Games will be able to collect and analyze game player behavior data on a timely basis or that such data will accurately reflect game player behavior. 10 Table of Contents Maintaining good relationships with its licensors, extending licenses for its existing licensed online games and licensing new online games Shanda Games licenses many of its online games, including some of its most popular games, from third parties. In 2009 and 2010, Shanda Games derived approximately 69.1% and 60.5% of its net revenues, respectively, from online games that were licensed from third parties. As of March 31, 2011, among the 34 online games operated by Shanda Games, 11 were licensed from third-party developers. Shanda Games must maintain good relations with its licensors to ensure the continued smooth operation of its licensed games. Additionally, Shanda Games depends upon its licensors to provide technical support necessary for the operation of the licensed games, as well as updates and expansion packs that help to sustain interest in games. Moreover, certain marketing activities often require the consent of its licensors. Finally, its licenses may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach by Shanda Games. Only some of its license agreements allow it to automatically extend the term of the license without renegotiating with the licensors. Shanda Games may want to extend a license upon its expiration but may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it or at all. Its licensors may also demand new royalty terms that are unacceptable to it. Shanda Games’ ability to continue to license its online games and to maintain good relationships with its licensors also affects its ability to license new games developed by the same licensors. Investments in and acquisitions of other businesses that Shanda Games believes may benefit its business. Shanda Games has invested in and acquired, and will continue to invest in or acquire other businesses that complement its business or games that it believes may benefit it in terms of game player base or game portfolio. For example, in 2010, Shanda Games acquired Eyedentity Games, Inc., or Eyedentity, a Korea-based online game developer, Goldcool Holdings Limited, or Goldcool, a Shanghai-based online game developer and operator, and Mochi Media, which operates a leading platform for distributing and monetizing browser-based mini-casual games worldwide. Shanda Games’ ability to grow through investments and acquisitions will depend on the availability of suitable candidates at an acceptable cost and its ability to consummate such transactions on commercially reasonable terms, such as its acquisitions of Goldcool and Mochi Media, as well as its ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. The identification and completion of these transactions may also require it to expend significant management and other resources. Moreover, the benefits of an investment or acquisition may take considerable time to materialize, and we cannot assure you that any particular transaction will achieve the intended benefits. Future acquisitions could also expose Shanda Games to potential risks, including those associated with the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of the acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, its relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Sourcing of new online games through cooperation. Shanda Games cooperates certain games in China under non-exclusive licenses granted by third-party Chinese developers who also operate those same games on their own platform. Shanda Games must maintain good relationships with these co-operators to ensure the continued smooth development and operation of such games. Shanda Games may incur significant cost overrun in product development in such arrangements. Shanda Games’ ability to successfully cooperate online games also depends on the availability of potential cooperation partners. 11 Table of Contents Shanda Games’ new games may not be commercially successful, and Shanda Games may fail to launch new games according to its timetable, or at all. In order to remain competitive, Shanda Games must introduce new online games that are attractive to its game players and can generate additional revenues and diversify its revenue sources. The games in its announced pipeline only represent its current expectations. Shanda Games may not launch these games or, if launched, they may not be commercially successful. The performance of Shanda Games’ existing online games is not an indication of the future performance of any game it is currently developing. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, insufficient game development personnel, a lack of marketing or other resources or acceptance of or interest in the new games among game players during the testing phase and adverse developments in Shanda Games’ relationship with the licensors of its new licensed games, could result in delays in launching or prevent it from launching its new games at all. In addition, there are many factors that could adversely affect the popularity of Shanda Games’ new games, including its ability to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends, new business models and changed game player preferences and requirements, to plan and organize marketing and promotional activities and to differentiate its new games from the existing games and other games offered by other companies. If Shanda Games fails to launch new games according to its timetable or at all, or if its new games are not commercially successful, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games’ new games may attract game players away from its existing games. Shanda Games’ new online games may attract game players away from its existing games and shrink its existing game player base, which could in turn make those existing games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from its existing games. Players of its existing games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in its new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing its existing games. In addition, its game players may migrate from its existing games with a higher profit margin to new games with a lower profit margin. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes or adjustments Shanda Games makes to its existing or new games may not be well received by its game players. As Shanda Games develops new online games or introduces updates and expansion packs to its existing games, it closely monitors its game players’ tastes and preferences and may introduce or change certain game features or game play styles to make its games more attractive. We cannot assure you that these changes or adjustments will be well received by the game players, who may decide not to play the new game or cease playing the existing game. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, Shanda Games introduced an expansion pack in Mir II which was not well received by the game players and led to some of the game players ceasing to purchase in-game items. As a result, any changes or adjustments Shanda Games makes to existing or new games may adversely impact our revenues and business prospects. The revenue models Shanda Games adopts for its online games may not be suitable. Shanda Games currently operates substantially all of its online games using the item-based revenue model and has generated, and expects to continue to generate, a substantial majority of its revenues using this revenue model. Under the item-based model, its game players can play games for free, but may choose to pay for in-game virtual items and other value-added services provided by Shanda Games to enhance the game-playing experience. Although Shanda Games has adopted the item-based revenue model for substantially all of its online games, it may not be the best revenue model for its games. The item-based revenue model requires Shanda Games to develop or license online games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires Shanda Games to track closely game players’ tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If Shanda Games fails to develop or offer virtual items which game players purchase, it may not be able to effectively convert its game player base into paying users. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns from PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that the Chinese youth spend on online games and who intend to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by an individual game player. A revenue model that does not charge for playing time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. Furthermore, Shanda Games may change the revenue model for some of its online games if it believes the existing revenue models are not optimal. We cannot assure you that the revenue model that Shanda Games has adopted for any of its online games will continue to be suitable for that game, or that Shanda Games will not in the future need to switch its revenue model or introduce a new revenue model for that game. A change in revenue model could result in various adverse consequences, including disruptions of the game operations, criticism from game players who have invested time and money in a game and would be adversely affected by such a change, decreases in the number of game players or decreases in the revenues Shanda Games generates from the online games, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Shanda Games faces risks associated with the licensing of its games internationally, and if it is unable to effectively manage these risks, its ability to expand its business internationally could be impaired. As of March 31, 2011, Shanda Games licensed 15 online games including 14 MMORPGs and one advanced casual game to game operators in a number of countries or regions. Shanda Games plans to further license its existing and new games in more countries and regions. Licensing its games in international markets exposes Shanda Games to a number of risks, including: • identifying and maintaining good relations with game operators who are knowledgeable in, and can effectively distribute and operate its games in, international markets; • negotiating licensing agreements with game operators on terms that are commercially acceptable to Shanda Games and enforcing the provisions of those agreements; • developing games, updates and expansion packs catering to overseas markets and renewing Shanda Games’ license agreements with game operators upon expiration; • maintaining the reputation of Shanda Games and its games, given that its games are operated by game operators in the international markets with different standards; • protecting Shanda Games’ intellectual property rights overseas and managing the related costs; • receiving and auditing the royalties Shanda Games is entitled to receive; • complying with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which Shanda Games’ games are offered, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; and • managing foreign currency risks. If Shanda Games is not able to manage these risks effectively, its ability to license its games overseas may be impaired, and our business, financial conditions and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Shanda Games’ business may be materially harmed if its online games are not featured prominently in a sufficient number of Internet cafes in China. A substantial number of game players access Shanda Games’ games through Internet cafes in China. Due to limited hardware capacity, Internet cafes generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. Shanda Games thus competes with a growing number of online game operators to have its online games featured on these computers. This competition has intensified in China due to a nationwide suspension of approval for the establishment of new Internet cafes in 2007. See “— Risks Related to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure — The PRC government has tightened its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently one of the primary venues for Shanda Games’ users to play online games.” If Shanda Games fails to feature its games prominently and sufficiently in Internet cafes in China or fails to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents The growth of the online game industry and market acceptance of Shanda Games’ online games remains uncertain. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of Shanda Games’ online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and will depend on factors beyond its control, including: • the growth rate in the number of users of personal computers, Internet and broadband in China and other markets in which Shanda Games’ online games are offered; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • changes in consumer demographics, tastes or preferences; • the popularity and price of new online games and virtual items that Shanda Games and its competitors launch and distribute; • Shanda Games’ ability to timely upgrade and improve its existing games to extend their commercial lifespan and to maintain or expand their market share in the online game industry; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly console system games, which are popular in many other countries and are becoming increasingly popular in China and other countries or regions in which Shanda Games markets its online games; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions that impact the level of discretionary consumer spending. There is no assurance that online games, such as MMORPGs, will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere in the world. Because we expect to continue to rely on MMORPGs as the primary source of our revenues, a decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that Shanda Games operates in particular, would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Shanda Games may not be able to adapt to the rapidly evolving online game industry in China. China’s online game industry is rapidly evolving. Shanda Games must adapt to new industry trends, including changes in game players’ preferences, new revenue models, new game content distribution models, new technologies and new governmental regulations. Shanda Games strives to adapt its business in response to evolving trends and operations in order to maintain and strengthen its leadership in the industry. If Shanda Games is unable to do so successfully or falls behind in adopting new technologies or standards, its existing online games may lose popularity, and the games in its pipeline may not be well received by the game player base, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games faces significant competition in the online game industry in China. The online game industry in China is increasingly competitive. In recent years, numerous competitors have entered the online game industry in China. We expect more companies to enter the market and we expect a wider range of online games to be introduced in China. Competition from other online game operators, both based in China as well as overseas, is likely to increase in the future. Other online game operators or developers, such as China-based Changyou.com Limited, Giant Interactive Group, Inc., Kingsoft Corporation Limited, Kongzhong Corporation, NetDragon Websoft Inc., NetEase.com, Nineyou International Limited, Perfect World Co., Ltd., Tencent Holdings Limited, and The9, as well as international game developers, such as Activision Blizzard, Inc., Electronic Arts Inc., NCSoft Corporation, Nexon Corporation, NHN Corp. and Webzen, Inc., are Shanda Games’ current or potential future competitors. As the online game industry in China is constantly evolving, Shanda Games’ current or future competitors may compete more successfully as the industry matures. In particular, any of these competitors may offer products and services that have significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by Shanda Games. These products and services may weaken Shanda Games’ brand name and achieve greater market acceptance than those of Shanda Games. In addition, at or around the time when Shanda Games launches a new game, competitors may launch similar games, which may compete with Shanda Games’ games for potential game players. Furthermore, any of Shanda Games’ current or future competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other strategic or commercial relationships with, larger, more established and better financed companies and therefore obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and game licensing and development resources than Shanda Games has. In addition, increased competition in the online game industry in China could make it difficult for Shanda Games to retain existing players and attract new players. Moreover, Shanda Games may face competition from console games that have achieved significant success in markets other than China but have yet to be permitted to be sold in China due to regulatory and other reasons. If these consoles game, many of which are strengthening their online game features, are permitted to be sold in China, Shanda Games would face additional competition. If Shanda Games is unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The global financial and economic crisis, particularly the slowdown in the Chinese economy, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions recently, and most of the world’s major economies entered into recession. The growth of China’s economy experienced a slowdown after the second quarter of 2007, when the quarterly growth rate of China’s gross domestic product reached 11.9%, slowing to as low as 6.2% for the first quarter of 2009. Although the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product accelerated and reached 11.9% in the first quarter of 2010, the growth rate slow down to 9.7% in the first quarter of 2011. It is uncertain whether China’s recent recovery in economic growth is sustainable and whether the slower growth that China’s economy experienced in 2008 and 2009 could return in the near future. Since Shanda Games currently derives substantially all of its revenues from game players in China, if our game players reduce the amount they spend on Shanda Games’ online games due to any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, Shanda Games’ plan to expand its business internationally may be adversely affected by an economic downturn in the countries or regions where Shanda Games licenses or intends to license Shanda Games’ online games, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Shanda Games fails to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies, its games may become obsolete or uncompetitive. The online game industry is subject to rapid technological change. Shanda Games must anticipate the emergence of new technologies and assess their market acceptance. In addition, government authorities or industry organizations may adopt new standards that apply to game development. Shanda Games also must invest significant financial resources in product development to keep pace with technological advances. However, development activities are inherently uncertain, and Shanda Games’ significant expenditures on technologies may not generate corresponding benefits. If Shanda Games falls behind in adopting new technologies or standards, its existing games may lose popularity, and its newly developed games may not be well received by its game players. In addition, Shanda Games may incur significant cost overruns in product development, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games’ online games may contain errors or defects and are susceptible to cheating programs. Shanda Games’ online games may contain errors or other defects. In addition, parties unrelated to it have developed, and may continue to develop, Internet cheating programs that enable game players to obtain unfair advantages over other game players who do not use such programs. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a player. The occurrence of errors or defects in Shanda Games’ online games or its failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of its game environment could disrupt its operations, damage its reputation and discourage players from playing its games. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Shanda Online Our company’s content providers depend on Shanda Online to provide services that are critical to our business. Many of our company’s content providers, including Shanda Games and Cloudary Corporation, have engaged Shanda Online to provide certain platform services. These content providers depend on Shanda Online for the provision of services that are critical to the operation of their businesses, including, among others, online billing and payment, customer service, user authentication, prepaid card marketing and distribution and data support service. If Shanda Online breaches its obligations under the contractual arrangements to provide such service to any of our content providers, or refuses to renew these service agreements on terms acceptable to any of our content providers, or at all, our content providers may not be able to find a suitable alternative service provider or establish their own integrated service platforms in a timely manner. Similarly, any failure of or significant quality deterioration in Shanda Online’s integrated service platform could materially and adversely affect our content providers’ businesses. For example, some of our company’s content providers rely on Shanda Online’s customer service representatives as the first point of contact to serve their users. Shanda Online handles customer requests such as adding virtual currencies to accounts with prepaid cards, retrieving forgotten passwords and recovering lost user accounts, and liaising with our content providers, if necessary. Our content providers also rely on Shanda Online to provide user authentication services for their users who access their content through Shanda Online’s service platform, and for prepaid card distribution. If Shanda Online fails to address customer service requests properly and in a timely manner, our users may be unable to access our content or attribute any unpleasant experience with Shanda Online’s customer service to our content providers or to us. Any negative impact to our reputation could lead to Shanda Online failing to retain current, or attract new, users or content providers, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because Shanda Online offers its services to third-party content providers, our users may consume less of our internal content. Shanda Online provides integrated services to third-party content providers that compete with our company’s content providers and may enter into additional similar commercial relationships with other content providers. These commercial relationships may strengthen these third parties’ market shares and enable them to achieve market acceptance for their products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our company’s content providers’ business. For example, the online games that Shanda Games’ competitors offer through Shanda Online’s integrated services platform attract players away from Shanda Games’ online games and shrink its player bases. Even though Shanda Online charges service fees to these third-party content providers, such fees may not compensate the loss in our net revenues resulting from our current users switching to third-party content providers. We could be liable for failure of, disruptions in, or third-party breaches of security of Shanda Online’s online payment platform. Currently, many of our content providers rely on Shanda Online’s online payment system to sell virtual prepaid cards to our users. Secured transmission of confidential information, such as our users’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks is essential to maintaining consumer confidence in such payment channels, which allow our content providers to collect payments on a timely basis. In addition, we expect that an increasing amount of the sales of prepaid cards will be conducted over the Internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, associated online crime will likely increase as well and we cannot assure you that Shanda Online’s current security measures and those of the third parties with whom Shanda Online transacts business, are adequate. Security breaches of these online payment systems could result in non-collection of payments and expose Shanda Online or us to litigation and possible liability for failing to protect confidential game player information, which could harm Shanda Online’s reputation and its ability to attract users to its platform. Shanda Online relies on third-party distributors to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network. Online payment systems in China are at a developmental stage and are not as widely available or acceptable to consumers in China as in the United States. As a result, Shanda Online relies heavily on a multi-layer distribution and payment network comprised of third-party distributors for sales to, and collection of payment from, our users. As Shanda Online does not enter into long-term agreements with any of its distributors, we cannot assure you that Shanda Online will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. Shanda Online also relies on third-party distributors to distribute prepaid cards to users which allow access to our online entertainment content. Shanda Online typically offers discount pricing rates to distributors based on different factors. If Shanda Online fails to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network, or the discount rates it pays to distributors were to increase, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Shanda Online’s business may be affected by network interruptions, capacity shortfalls, security breaches or computer viruses and is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of Shanda Online’s network infrastructure, including as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods, may cause significant harm to Shanda Online’s reputation and its ability to attract and maintain users. Shanda Online maintains a distributed server network architecture with third-party service providers hosting servers in more than one hundred cities throughout China, but does not maintain full backup for its server network hardware. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include: • any breakdowns or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of Shanda Online’s servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to its systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; • any unanticipated surge in users or inability to support content resulting in an overload to Shanda Online’s server network which may cause interruptions to the service; and • any disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would prevent our users outside Shanghai from logging on to any of our content, for which the servers are all located in Shanghai. In the past, Shanda Online’s server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third-party service providers. Shanda Online’s network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hacking and similar events. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of the online entertainment content on its service platform or deterioration in the quality of access to Shanda Online’s online entertainment content could reduce its users’ satisfaction or even result in damage to its customers’ businesses. Shanda Online does not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to its systems and it does not have business interruption insurance. To succeed, online commerce and communications must also provide a secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Shanda Online’s security measures may not detect or prevent security breaches that could harm its business. Currently, a significant number of its users authorize it to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by it. Shanda Online relies on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by Shanda Online to protect transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data. Any compromise of its security could harm Shanda Online’s reputation and business, and could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws. In addition, a party that is able to circumvent Shanda Online’s security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruption in its operations, damage its computers or those of its users or otherwise damage its reputation and business. Under credit card rules and its contracts with its card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that it stores, Shanda Online could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if Shanda Online fails to follow credit card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, it could incur significant fines or lose its ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If Shanda Online were unable to accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Security breaches, including any breach by Shanda Online or by parties with which it has commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of its users’ personal information, could damage its reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. 17 Table of Contents The successful operation of Shanda Online’s business and implementation of its growth strategies, including its ability to accommodate additional content providers and users in the future, depend upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed-line and wireless telecommunications networks in China. Although there are private sector Internet service providers in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Shanda Online relies on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. Although the PRC government has announced plans to aggressively develop the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed as planned or at all. In addition, Shanda Online has no access to alternative networks and services on a timely basis, if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands necessary for the continued growth in Internet usage. Shanda Online is dependent on the business performance of its content provider customers and especially relies on Shanda Games for a substantial portion of its revenues. Shanda Online generates revenue from services it provides to both our company’s content providers and third-party content providers. The amount of services Shanda Online provides to these content providers is dependent on the amount of services that their users demand. The failure to secure new key customers, the loss of key customers or the occurrence of significant reductions in sales from a key customer would cause Shanda Online’s revenues to decrease and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Online operates its integrated services platform through the Shengzhan entities and Shanda Networking. Shanda Online entered into a cooperation agreement with Shanda Games, to provide certain online e-commerce platform services to Shanda Games for a period of five years commencing on July 1, 2008. Shanda Games has agreed to pay Shanda Online an amount equal to the difference between (x) the amount Shanda Online receives from distributors or users from the sale of the prepaid cards and (y) a fixed percentage of the face value of a prepaid card as agreed upon between Shanda Online and Shanda Games. See “— Our company’s content providers depend on Shanda Online to provide services that are critical to our business.” This cooperation agreement is the source of a significant portion of Shanda Online’s revenues. If Shanda Games were to decide not to renew this agreement for any reasons, including user dissatisfaction with Shanda Online’s services, it could have a material adverse effect on Shanda Online’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Use of Shanda Online’s services for illegal purposes could harm its business. The PRC laws and regulations relating to the liability of online services providers for the activities of their users on their service is often challenged. In violation of Shanda Online’s policies, unlawful or stolen goods have been listed and traded on its site. Shanda Online may be unable to prevent users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or providing unlawful services or selling goods or services in unlawful manners, and it may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for such unlawful activities carried out by users through its services. The PRC government has also raised concerns about the use of online services for gambling, money laundering and illicit trade. See “— Risks Related to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure — The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content deemed to be inappropriate.” Although Shanda Online has adopted internal procedures to ensure the online activities through its network comply with the relevant PRC laws and regulations, it may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional measures or discontinue certain services. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual unlawful online activities of its users could harm its business. In addition, Shanda Online may receive media attention relating to the listing or sale of unlawful goods and stolen goods through our services. This negative publicity, even if factually incorrect, could damage its reputation, diminish the value of its brand names and make users reluctant to use its services. Shanda Online’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software and other intellectual property rights, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities fraud. The costs of compliance with the PRC laws and regulations and third-party rights may continue to increase as a result of more online activities by Shanda Online’s increasing number of users, which may materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Customer complaints or negative publicity about customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of Shanda Online’s services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about Shanda Online’s customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of its services. Shanda Online may take measure to combat fraud and breaches of privacy and security that may damage its relationship with customers or decrease users’ activity on its sites as these measures may block access to its sites or restrict the activities of certain users. These measures also require prompt and responsive customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes, which could lead to significant personnel expense. Failure to manage or train customer support representatives properly could compromise Shanda Online’s ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If Shanda Online does not handle customer complaints effectively, its reputation may suffer and it may lose its customers’ confidence. As part of Shanda Online’s effort to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw funds if such funds or the customers’ account activity are identified by Shanda Online’s risk models as suspicious. If Shanda Online is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, its users may have negative experiences, it may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged and it could become subject to litigation. Negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for Shanda Online could cause its reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in the “Shanda” brand as a whole. Risks Related to Ku6 Ku6 is operating with a small amount of working capital. If Ku6 cannot obtain additional sources of liquidity when needed, its growth prospectus and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Ku6 reported net losses attributable to our company of US$12.0 million, US$23.4 million and US$51.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Ku6 had cash and cash equivalents of approximately US$27.3 million and working capital of approximately US$8.4 million. Ku6’s net cash used in operating activities in 2010 was US$29.6 million. On April 1, 2011, Ku6 entered into agreements with Shanda Media Group Limited, or Shanda Media, a wholly owned subsidiary of us, pursuant to which Ku6 agreed to issue to Shanda Media 1,538,461,538 ordinary shares for an aggregate purchase price of US$50,000,000 (or US$0.0325 per share) and US$50,000,000 aggregate principal amount of senior convertible bond. The bond will mature in three years after issuance and will bear an interest of 3% per annum. The issuance of the ordinary shares and the convertible bond have been approved by Ku6’s independent directors and shareholders. Shanda Media has committed to make the investment and we anticipate to close these transactions in the early part of the third quarter of 2011. As a result, Ku6 believes it will have sufficient cash to fund its 2011 capital expenditure requirements and working capital needs. However, Ku6 may require additional funding to finance it future growth and to meet its working capital requirements. Also, Ku6 may not be able to refinance its current borrowings on terms that are aceptable, or at all. Its ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • inability to achieve planned operating results that could increase liquidity requirements beyond those considered in its business plan; • changes in financial market conditions or its business condition that could limit its access to existing credit facilities or make new financings more costly or even unfeasible; and • changes in China’s currency exchange control regulations that could limit its ability to access cash in China to meet liquidity requirements for its operations in China or elsewhere; 19 Table of Contents If Ku6 is unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, its growth prospects and future profitability may be materially adversely affected. Ku6 has a short operating history in a new and unproven market, which makes it difficult to evaluate its future prospects and may increase the risk that it will not be successful. Ku6 entered into the online video business in January 2010 when it acquired Ku6 Holding Limited. Ku6’s previous wireless value-added service and recorded music businesses were disposed in August 2010 and the only continuing business currently is online video and audio operations. Ku6 has a short operating history in a new and unproven market that may not develop as expected, if at all. This short operating history makes it difficult to effectively assess its future prospects. Ku6 has a history of losses, and it may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Ku6 incurred net losses in each of the fiscal years from 2007 through 2009, inclusive, and it continued to incur losses in fiscal year 2010 after it entered into the online video business. Ku6’s ability to achieve profitability is affected by various factors, including: • growth of the online video industry and the online advertising market; • the continued acceptance of its online video content by its users; • the continued growth and maintenance of its user base; • its ability to control its costs and expenses; and • its ability to provide new advertising services to meet the demands of its advertising customers. Many of these factors are beyond Ku6’s control. For example, Ku6’s revenues and profitability depend on the continuous development of the online advertising market in China and brand advertisers’ allocation of more budgets to the online video industry. We cannot assure you that online advertising, as a new marketing channel, will become more widely accepted in China or that the advertisers will increase their spending on online video websites. Ku6 may continue to incur net losses in the future due to its continued investments in content, bandwidth and technology. If Ku6 cannot successfully offset its increased costs with an increase in net revenues, its gross margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Ku6 may also continue to incur net losses in the future due to changes in the macroeconomic and regulatory environment, competitive dynamics and its inability to respond to these changes in a timely and effective manner. Ku6 operates in a highly competitive market and may not be able to compete successfully against its competitors. Ku6 faces significant competition, primarily from those companies that operate online video websites in China, which Ku6’s management estimates to currently number over one hundred. A large number of independent online video sites, such as youku.com and tudou.com, compete against Ku6. In addition, Chinese Internet portals, including sina.com, sohu.com and baidu.com, and some of China’s major TV networks, such as China Central Television, or CCTV, Phoenix Satellite TV and Hunan Satellite TV, which have longer operating histories and more experience in attracting and retaining users and managing customers than Ku6 does, have launched their own video businesses. Ku6 also faces competition from Internet video streaming platforms based on the P2P technology, such as PPStream and PPTV. Ku6 competes with these companies for content, users and advertisers. Its competitors may compete with Ku6 in a variety of ways, including by obtaining exclusive online distribution rights for popular content, conducting brand promotions and other marketing activities and making acquisitions. In addition, certain online video websites may continue to derive their revenues from providing content that infringes third-party copyright and may not monitor their websites for any such infringing content. As a result, Ku6 may be placed at a disadvantage to some of these websites that do not incur similar costs as Ku6 does with respect to content acquisition and content monitoring. Some of Ku6’s competitors have a longer operating history and significantly greater financial resources than Ku6 does, and in turn may be able to attract and retain more users and advertisers. If any of Ku6’s competitors achieves greater market acceptance than Ku6 does or are able to offer more attractive online video content, Ku6’s user traffic and market share may decrease, which may result in a loss of advertisers and have a material and adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents In addition, Internet streaming of content represents only one of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing video. Many users maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple video providers and can easily shift from one provider to another. For example, users may subscribe to cable, buy a DVD and download a movie from Apple iTunes or other sources, or some combination thereof. New competitors may be able to launch new businesses at a relatively low cost. Ku6 also faces competition from other types of advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, yellow pages, billboards and other forms of outdoor media, television and radio. Most large companies in China allocate, and will likely continue to allocate, most of their marketing budgets to traditional advertising media and only a small portion of their budgets to online marketing and other forms of advertising media. If these companies do not devote a larger portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing services provided by Ku6’s online video business, or if the existing customers of Ku6 reduce the amount they spend on online marketing, the results of operations and future growth prospects of Ku6 could be adversely affected. Ku6 operates in a capital-intensive industry and requires a significant amount of cash to fund its operations and bandwidth, content and technology acquisitions. If Ku6 cannot obtain sufficient capital, its business, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The operation of an online video business requires significant upfront capital expenditures as well as continuous, substantial investment in content, technology and infrastructure. In order to implement its development strategies to expand its infrastructure and optimize its services across Internet-enabled devices, and further expand and diversify its revenue sources, Ku6 may incur additional capital needs in the future. Ku6’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future, however, is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • future business development, financial condition and results of operations; • general market conditions for financing activities by companies in its industry; and • macroeconomic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. We cannot assure that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to Ku6, if at all. If Ku6 cannot obtain sufficient capital to meet its capital expenditure needs, it may not be able to execute its growth strategies and its business, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The online video industry in China and user acceptance of the online video content provided by Ku6 may not grow as quickly as expected, which may adversely affect its revenues and business prospects. Ku6’s business and prospects depend on the continuing development of the online video industry in China. As an emerging industry, China’s online video industry has experienced substantial growth in recent years in terms of both users and content. We cannot assure you, however, that the online video industry will continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the past. With the development of technology, new forms of media may emerge and render online video websites less attractive to users. Growth of the online video industry is affected by numerous factors, such as users’ general online video experience, technological innovations, development of Internet and Internet-based services, regulatory changes, especially regulations affecting copyrights, and the macroeconomic environment. If the online video industry in China does not grow as quickly as expected or if Ku6 fails to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing its business strategies, its user traffic may decrease and its business and prospects may be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Ku6 depends on studios, distributors and other content owners to license professionally produced content that it can stream instantly over the Internet. Increases in market prices for professionally produced content may have an adverse effect on Ku6’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of Ku6’s user traffic is attributable to professionally produced content. Ku6’s ability to provide its users with professionally produced content that they can watch instantly, such as movies and TV episodes, depends on studios and distributors licensing such content specifically for Internet delivery. The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. If the studios and distributors change their terms and conditions, or are no longer willing or able to provide Ku6 licenses, Ku6’s ability to stream content to its users will be adversely affected. Some of the licenses provide for the studios or distributor to withdraw content from Ku6’s service relatively quickly. As a result, content available through Ku6’s network can be withdrawn on short notice. If Ku6 is unable to secure and maintain rights to streaming content or if it cannot otherwise obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to it, Ku6’s ability to stream movies and TV episodes to its users will be adversely impacted, and its user acquisition and retention could be adversely impacted. During the course of Ku6’s license relationship, various contract administration issues can arise. To the extent that Ku6 is unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, its relationship with the studios and distributors or its access to content may be adversely impacted. Moreover, the market prices for professionally produced content, especially popular movies and television series dramas, have increased significantly in China during the past few years. Due to the improving monetization prospects of online video advertising, online video websites are generating more revenues and are competing aggressively to license popular television series dramas and movies, and the increasingly intense content bidding process has in turn led to increases in license fees of professionally produced content in general. As the market develops, the expectations of copyright owners, distributors and industry associations may continue to rise, and as such they may demand higher licensing fees for professionally produced content. In addition, Ku6 may explore a revenue sharing license model with content owners. Under this model, Ku6 generally obtains titles for low initial cost in exchange for a commitment to share a percentage of the advertising revenues generated by us from such titles, for a defined period of time. The initial cost may be in the form of an upfront non-refundable payment and may also be in the form of a prepayment of future revenue sharing obligations. The terms of some revenue sharing agreements may obligate Ku6 to make minimum revenue sharing payments for certain titles. If Ku6 is unable to generate sufficient revenues to outpace the increase in market prices for professionally produced content, it may incur more losses and its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the terms of Ku6’s licenses for professionally produced content generally range from one to three years for movies and television serial dramas. If Ku6 is unable to obtain professionally produced content on terms that are economically attractive to it for longer period, it may not be able to maintain and grow its user base and may lose its market position. Ku6 generates substantially all of its revenues from online advertising. If Ku6 fails to retain existing advertisers or attract new advertisers to advertise on its website, or if it is unable to collect accounts receivable from the advertisers or advertising agencies in a timely manner, Ku6’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Ku6 generates substantially all of its revenues from online advertising. The online advertising market is new and rapidly evolving, particularly in China. As a result, many of Ku6’s current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising. Moreover, changes in government policy could restrict or curtail Ku6’s online advertising services. For example, in 2006 and 2007, the PRC government enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising. Ku6 retains existing advertisers and attract new advertisers by maximizing return on their investment. If however, the advertisers determine that their expenditures on online video websites do not generate expected returns, they may allocate a portion or all of their advertising budgets to other advertising channels such as television, newspapers and magazines and reduce or discontinue business with Ku6. Since most of Ku6’s advertisers are not bound by long-term contracts, they may amend or terminate advertising arrangements with Ku6 easily without incurring liabilities. Failure to retain existing advertisers or attract new advertisers to advertise on Ku6’s website may materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 22 Table of Contents A majority of Ku6’s online advertising agreements are entered into with various third-party advertising agencies. Ku6 relies on third-party advertising agencies for sales to, and collection of payment from, its advertisers. In consideration for the third-party advertising agencies’ services, Ku6 pays them commissions based on the volume of business they bring to Ku6. The financial soundness of its advertisers and advertising agencies may affect Ku6‘s collection of accounts receivable. Ku6 makes a credit assessment of the advertiser and advertising agency to evaluate the collectability of the advertising service fees before entering into an advertising contract. However, Ku6 cannot assure you that it is or will be able to accurately assess the creditworthiness of each advertiser or advertising agency, and any inability of advertisers or advertising agencies to pay it in a timely manner may adversely affect Ku6’s liquidity and cash flows. Ku6 does not have long-term cooperation agreements or exclusive arrangements with these agencies and they may elect to direct business opportunities to other advertising service providers, including Ku6’s competitors. If Ku6 fails to retain and enhance its business relationships with third-party advertising agencies, it may suffer from a loss of advertising, and its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, there has been some consolidation in China’s online advertising market. If this trend continues, a small number of large advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher commission for advertising agency services, which could reduce its gross margin. Ku6 depends on a limited number of advertising customers, which include both advertisers and advertising agencies for a significant portion of its revenues. Failure to maintain relationships with these advertising customers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in its revenues. Ku6 depends on a limited number of advertising customers for a significant portion of its revenues. Ku6 generally does not maintain long-term contracts with advertising customers. Most of its advertising agreements are short-term contracts. Ku6 cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain its relationships with them or renew its spot and short-term contracts. In addition, sales to these advertising customers are typically made through non-exclusive arrangements, and competition for these customers is intense. Ku6 anticipates that its dependence on a limited number of advertising customers will continue in the foreseeable future. Consequently, failure to maintain relationships with these advertising customers could materially and adversely affect Ku6’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If Ku6 fails to continue to anticipate user preferences and provide products and services to attract and retain users, Ku6 may not be able to generate sufficient user traffic to remain competitive. Ku6’s success depends on its ability to generate sufficient user traffic through provision of attractive products and services. To attract and retain users and compete against its competitors, Ku6 must continue to offer high-quality content that provides its users with a satisfactory online video experience. To this end, Ku6 must continue to source new professionally produced content, produce new in-house content or encourage more user-generated content, while balancing the value of each type of content to its advertising services. For example, Ku6 attracts a majority of its user traffic with professionally produced content. Ku6’s advertisers can place targeted advertisements focusing on certain user demographics. With user-generated content, users can upload and share their own videos and spend longer time on Ku6’s website, and a “community-like” environment enhances users’ loyalty to Ku6’s website and such network effect broadens advertisers’ reach of audience. With its in-house productions, Ku6 tailors such content to users’ preferences based on its industry experience and combines these productions with targeted advertising services such as product placements, which benefits both the users and its advertisers. Based on the feedback on its website design and its statistics regarding users’ viewing behavior, Ku6 keeps developing new website features that appeal to users, such as designing more user-friendly content searching tools, creating additional interactive social functions or offering better website compatibility with new Internet-enabled devices. Due to Ku6’s leading market position, it maintains a large content library to serve its users, which in turn leads to its continuing need to license more content covering a wider range of categories from the licensors of professionally produced content. Ku6 must continue to grow its platform and content demand to keep its key customer status in order to maintain good relationships with current licensors of professionally produced content to renew their current licenses and license new content from them. Ku6 needs to continuously anticipate user preferences and industry changes and respond to such changes in a timely and effective manner. If Ku6 fails to cater to the needs and preferences of its users and, as a result, fails to deliver satisfactory user experience, it may suffer from reduced user traffic and its business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that Ku6 will fully develop an ability to respond to changing consumer preferences, to effectively adjust its product mix, service offerings and marketing initiatives, or to selectively develop and maintain strategic alliances for products and services that meet and anticipate advances in technology and market trends. The success of Ku6’s business depends on its ability to maintain and enhance Ku6’s brand. Ku6 believes that maintaining and enhancing its Ku6 (“6” ) brand is of significant importance to the success of its business. Since the online video market is highly competitive, a well-recognized brand is critical to increasing Ku6’s user base and, in turn, enhancing its attractiveness to advertisers. Ku6 believes that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of Internet users in China grows. In order to attract and retain Internet users and advertisers, Ku6 may need to substantially increase its expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Ku6’s success in promoting and enhancing its brand, as well as its ability to remain competitive, will also depend on its success in offering high-quality content, features and functionality. If Ku6 fails to promote its brand successfully, or if visitors to its website or advertisers do not perceive its content and services to be of high quality, Ku6 may not be able to continue growing its business and attracting users and advertisers. Ku6 may not be able to manage its expansion effectively. Ku6 Holding Limited experienced rapid growth after it commenced its online video business in 2006, and it has maintained such rapid growth in the past few years. To manage the further expansion of its business and the growth of its operations and personnel, Ku6 needs to continuously expand and enhance its infrastructure and technology, and improve its operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. Ku6 also needs to expand, train and manage its growing employee base. In addition, Ku6’s management will be required to maintain and expand its relationships with content providers, advertisers, advertising agencies and other third parties. We cannot assure that Ku6’s current infrastructure, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support its expanding operations. If Ku6 fails to manage its expansion effectively, its business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relate to Cloudary Corporation Cloudary Corporation incurred net losses and net operating cash outflows in 2008, 2009, 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011 and may continue to incur losses and cash outflows in the future. Cloudary Corporation incurred net losses in 2008, 2009, 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011, primarily due to copyright licensing cost, head count related expenses and sales and marketing expenses required to ramp up its operations in the early stages of the development of its business. Cloudary Corporation also incurred net operating cash outflows in 2008, 2009, 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011, primarily due to its net losses during the same periods and increases in inventory in connection with the commencement of its offline publishing business or the increase in account receivables from third-party wireless carriers. Cloudary Corporation’s ability to achieve profitability is affected by various factors, some of which are beyond its control. In addition, Cloudary Corporation expects its future revenues and profitability to also depend partly on the continued popularity and growth of the online and mobile literature industries in China. User attention and spending on online and electronic literary content may not continue to increase or may not continue to increase at the rates that they have in the past. Cloudary Corporation may also incur cash obligations that affect its net liquidity position and cause it to incur further net cash outflows. For instance, under two acquisitions Cloudary Corporation made in 2010, Cloudary Corporation may be required to purchase the remaining equity holdings from the selling shareholders if it fails to complete its initial public offering within an agreed upon time period or fails to reach agreement on other terms. In addition, some of the acquisition agreements contain a general provision which calls for the parties, prior to or in the event of Cloudary Corporation’s initial public offering, to engage in good faith discussions and enter into new agreements under which the original shareholders can exchange their remaining interests in the acquired entities for shares or options to acquire shares of Cloudary Corporation. In the event Cloudary Corporation reaches agreement with any of the original shareholders to acquire their/its remaining interest in cash, Cloudary Corporation may incur additional cash obligations that could affect its net liquidity position. See “—Cloudary Corporation may be subject to potential disputes on certain provisions of the agreements it entered into to acquire some of its online or offline businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.” Cloudary Corporation may also continue to incur net losses in the future due to changes in the macroeconomic and regulatory environment, competitive dynamics and its inability to respond to these changes in a timely and effective manner. 24 Table of Contents Cloudary Corporation’s profitability depends significantly on its ability to control the copyright licensing cost relating to its online business. Cloudary Corporation derived approximately 85.1%, 53.8%, 46.2% and 52.6% of net revenues from monetizing its proprietary literary content including payment from online paid users, wireless services and copyright licensing, in 2008, 2009, 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011, respectively. Copyright licensing cost relating to its online business has historically accounted for the largest portion of cost of revenues for Cloudary Corporation. In 2008, 2009, 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011, copyright licensing cost relating to Cloudary Corporation’s online business constituted approximately 75.9%, 54.9%, 37.4% and 41.5%, respectively, of its total cost of revenues. Due to the improving monetization prospects of original literary content, there is increasing competition for popular literary content. In addition, as the market develops, the expectations of copyright owners, distributors and industry associations may continue to rise, and as such, they may demand higher licensing fees for such content. As a result, we expect Cloudary Corporation’s copyright licensing cost to increase on an absolute basis as it expands its literary content library. If Cloudary Corporation cannot successfully offset its increased copyright licensing cost with an increase in net revenues, its gross margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The online and mobile literature industries in China and user acceptance of Cloudary Corporation’s literary content may not grow as quickly as expected, which may adversely affect Cloudary Corporation’s revenues and business prospects. Cloudary Corporation’s business and prospects depend on the continuing development of the online and mobile literature industries in China. Cloudary Corporation’s platform includes six original literature websites and also connects with third-party content providers and content distribution channels. The online and mobile literature industries have experienced substantial growth in recent years both in terms of users and content. We cannot assure you, however, that the online and mobile literature industries will continue to grow as rapidly as they have in the past. With the development of technology, new forms of business models may emerge and render online literature websites and mobile literature services less attractive to users. Growth of the online and mobile literature industries is affected by numerous factors, such as users’ general online or wireless literature experience, technological innovations, development of Internet and digital media-based services, regulatory changes, especially regulations affecting copyrights, Internet and digital media-based services, and the macroeconomic environment. In particular, because Cloudary Corporation’s online literature business is transforming traditional content creation models and is therefore not easily understood by casual observers, its business and reputation may be vulnerable to poor perception. For example, perception that the quality of Cloudary Corporation’s online content may not be the same as or better than that of other published Internet content, even though baseless, can damage its reputation. Also, any negative media publicity about online or mobile literature industries or security problems of other online literature websites in China may materially and adversely affect user percentage of the online and mobile literature industries, which could harm Cloudary Corporation’s ability to attract and retain users, advertisers and authors. In addition, although the use of personal computers and mobile phones in China has increased significantly in recent years, their penetration rates are still much lower than those in the United States. If Internet and wireless connectivity in China, and in particular, the online and mobile literature industries in China do not grow as quickly as expected or if Cloudary Corporation fails to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing its business strategies, its business and prospects may be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Cloudary Corporation’s online and mobile literature businesses depend heavily on the market recognition and reputation of its brands, and any harm to its brands or failure to maintain and enhance its brand recognition may materially and adversely affect Cloudary Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Cloudary Corporation believes that the market recognition and reputation of its brands such as qidian.com, rongshuxia.com, hongxiu.com and “Cloudary” have significantly contributed to the success of its online and mobile literature businesses. Maintaining and enhancing the recognition and reputation of Cloudary Corporation’s brands are critical to its success and ability to compete. Many factors, some of which are beyond its control, are important to maintaining and enhancing Cloudary Corporation’s brands and may negatively impact its brands and reputation if not properly managed, such as: • ability to maintain a convenient and reliable user experience as user preferences evolve and as we expand into new service categories and new business lines; • ability to increase brand awareness among existing and potential authors and advertisers through various means of marketing and promotional activities; • ability to adopt new technologies or adapt its websites and its systems to user requirements or emerging industry standards; and • ability to effectively control the quality of third-party merchants, including telecommunication operators, and to monitor service performance of such third parties as Cloudary Corporation continues to attract new authors and to integrate literary content sourcing and distribution channels through its platform. If Cloudary Corporation is unable to maintain its reputation, further enhance its brand recognition and increase positive awareness of its websites, its results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Cloudary Corporation’s prospects and financial results may be adversely affected if it fails to identify, sign and retain promising authors who generate popular literary content on a scale sufficient to grow its business. Cloudary Corporation relies primarily on authors for the literary content that drives the online traffic and transactions originated from its content. Cloudary Corporation may not be able to attract, identify and retain promising authors to generate popular literary content on a scale sufficient to grow its business. Cloudary Corporation competitors may offer its authors more favorable terms that it is unable to match. Its authors, especially bestselling authors, may ask for more favorable terms or higher prices for licensing or transferring the proprietary rights of their literary works to Cloudary Corporation. As the membership of its websites is free and registered users can publish their works without acceptance by editors, Cloudary Corporation cannot guarantee that the content created by its authors will be of sufficient quality to attract users to its platform. Although most of the Cloudary Corporation’s authors who agree to create literary content exclusively for Cloudary Corporation for a certain period of time, Cloudary Corporation cannot control their productivity or the quality of their works produced within the contract term. Cloudary Corporation cannot be certain that the online authors will continue to prefer to publish their literary works on its websites, as opposed to in print form. In the event that Cloudary Corporation’s authors decrease their production of literary content, it is unable to attract or retain qualified authors or the quality of such contributions is not sufficiently attractive to its readers or to drive traffic to its platform, Cloudary Corporation may incur substantial costs to procure suitable replacement content, which could have a negative impact on its business, revenues, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Cloudary Corporation is dependent upon the cooperation agreements with China Mobile for a significant portion of its revenues. A significant portion of Cloudary Corporation’s revenues is derived from its revenue sharing arrangements with China Mobile Limited, or China Mobile, pursuant to which Cloudary Corporation provides content to the central reading station of China Mobile and receives a percentage of the fees paid by China Mobile’s users. In 2010 and the three months ended March 31, 2011, Cloudary Corporation derived approximately 15.0% and 23.7% of its net revenues from revenue sharing arrangements with China Mobile with respect to its wireless services. Cloudary Corporation’s agreements with China Mobile typically have a term of one or two years. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be extended or renewed after their respective expiration or that it will be able to extend or renew such agreements on terms and conditions favorable to it. If China Mobile breaches its obligations under any of the agreements or refuses to extend it when the term expires, Cloudary Corporation may lose all or a portion of the user base of China Mobile’s wireless network. Any termination or deterioration of its relationship with China Mobile, and any extension or renewal after the initial term on terms and conditions less favorable to Cloudary Corporation would have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Cloudary Corporation relies on the billing statements provided by China Mobile in order to recognize a substantial portion of its net revenues from wireless services. Cloudary Corporation may not be able to recognize revenue from wireless services from China Mobile in the period in which the services are performed if it does not receive the billing statements from China Mobile prior to the date of issuance of its financial statements. Due to the delays in receiving such billing statements, Cloudary Corporation’s revenues may fluctuate between periods and may not reflect the actual performance of its services. Cloudary Corporation may be subject to potential disputes on certain provisions of the agreements it entered into to acquire some of its online or offline businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Cloudary Corporation has acquired from third parties all of its websites and two of its three offline publishing companies. Cloudary Corporation entered into acquisition agreements with the original shareholders or owners of these websites or businesses. Some of the acquisition agreements, including the agreements to acquire rongshuxia.com, xxsy.net, readnovel.com, tingbook.com and zubunet.com as well as two of Cloudary Corporation’s offline businesses Huawen and Zhongzhi, contain a general provision which calls for the parties, prior to or in the event of Cloudary Corporation’s initial public offering, to engage in good faith discussions and enter into new agreements under which the original shareholders can exchange their remaining interests in the acquired entities for shares or options to acquire shares of Cloudary Corporation. At the time these transactions were entered into, these provisions were intended to provide liquidity for the original shareholders with respect to their remaining interests in such websites or businesses in the event Cloudary Corporation’s shares become publicly listed. Because these provisions cannot be implemented without further details to be discussed and agreed upon by the parties, Cloudary Corporation is in the process of negotiating with these shareholders in order to allow them to exit in the future, either through the issuance of additional shares in exchange for their remaining interests or the cash purchase of their remaining interests. However, there is no assurance that Cloudary Corporation will be able to reach an agreement with all of the relevant original shareholders in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent that Cloudary Corporation is not able to reach an agreement or otherwise resolve the issue in a timely manner, we may face claims, disputes, litigations or other proceedings initiated by such shareholders against us. We may incur substantial expenses and require significant attention of management in defending against these claims, regardless of their merit. In addition, as certain of the original shareholders remain the key employees of some of these entities including those who operate xxsy.net, tingbook.com and zubunet.com as well as two of Cloudary Corporation’s offline businesses, Huawen and Zhongzhi, failure to reach agreement with them could severely disrupt the business operations and financial performance of these entities. We could also face damages to our reputation as a result of such claims, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In the event Cloudary Corporation reaches agreement with any of the original shareholders, Cloudary Corporation may need to issue additional shares or pay cash to such shareholders in order to acquire their remaining interests, which will have dilutive impact to Cloudary Corporation’s existing shareholders or affect its net liquidity position. In addition, we believe, based on the advice of Cloudary Corporation’s PRC counsel, Jade & Fountain PRC Lawyers, the issuance of additional shares pursuant to the new agreements, if any, will not result in noncompliance with the Rules on Mergers with and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, because the M&A Rules do not specifically address such situation. Despite that, we and our PRC counsel cannot assure you that the relevant PRC regulatory authorities will not take a contrary view due to the lack of clear guidance on this point. If any PRC regulatory authority determines that the share swap arrangement Cloudary Corporation enters into is in violation of the M&A Rules, the share swap may not be completed and Cloudary Corporation may be subject to fines or penalties. 27 Table of Contents Cloudary Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected if it is unable to efficiently manage its inventory and other risks with respect to its offline publishing business. Cloudary Corporation must anticipate the marketability of its offline publications before selling them to readers. Due to the sales model that is generally adopted in the publishing business in China, Cloudary Corporation faces risks associated with having a relatively long selling and collection cycle for its offline publications that requires it to make significant resource commitments prior to realizing revenues. Under the agreements Cloudary Corporation typically enters into with chain and online bookstores and wholesalers, it is required to deliver the books with no or limited upfront payments from the bookstores and wholesalers. Cloudary Corporation delivers the books substantially on consignment basis and only receives payments from the bookstores and wholesalers based on sales orders confirmed by both parties. Therefore, its selling and collection cycle, which generally ranges from three to eight months depending on the internal management of the bookstores or wholesalers, is subject to many risks and delays over which it has little or no control, including readers’ preferences and the creditworthiness of the bookstores or wholesalers. In addition, under this business model, Cloudary Corporation also incurs increased inventory risks if the bookstores and wholesalers are unable to sell its books in a timely manner or return unsold publications to Cloudary Corporation. If Cloudary Corporation is unable to correctly predict demand for its books, it will be responsible for covering the cost of the books that it is unable to sell, and its financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Cloudary Corporation relies on the publishing licenses of third-party publishers for its offline publications. If such third-party publishers cease to cooperate with Cloudary Corporation on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or if the PRC regulatory authorities find such cooperation arrangements to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations governing the publishing industry, its offline business will be materially and adversely affected. Under relevant PRC laws and regulations, only entities with a valid publishing license granted by the General Administration of Press and Publications, or the GAPP, are permitted to publish books or other publications in printed form in China. The GAPP ensures compliance with such laws and regulations through granting International Standard Book Numbers, or ISBNs, which are necessary for printing books in China, exclusively to those publishers that own publishing licenses. Such publishers are not allowed to sell or otherwise transfer their ISBNs to any third parties. Although Cloudary Corporation holds permits for marketing and distributing publications, it does not have a publishing license. Therefore, Cloudary Corporation has contracted with several qualified state-owned publishers to assist it in this aspect of the publishing process. Under these agreements, the stated-owned publishers are responsible for reviewing, applying for the necessary ISBNs for, and publishing, the books or other literary content submitted by Cloudary Corporation. If any of such publishers cease to cooperate with Cloudary Corporation on commercially acceptable terms or at all and it is not able to find a suitable alternative partner in a timely manner, it may lose significant business and its offline operations will be materially and adversely affected. Cloudary Corporation’s reliance on the cooperation arrangements with the state-owned publishers also subject it to the internal management and financial condition of such publishers. Due to the uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not find such cooperation arrangements to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations governing the publishing industry. To the extent the PRC regulatory authorities find the cooperation arrangements with the state-owned publishers illegal, Cloudary Corporation may be required to suspend or cease its current offline business or may be subject to other penalties such as fines, which could amount to five to ten times the illegal gain. As a result, Cloudary Corporation’s revenues, business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Cloudary Corporation operates in a highly competitive market, and its competitors may have various advantages, including the ability to draw upon a greater depth and breadth of resources than those available to it. Cloudary Corporation’s failure to compete successfully in the market could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Cloudary Corporation faces formidable competition in every aspect of its business, and particularly from other companies that seek to provide platform services for literary content creation, consumption and distribution. Cloudary Corporation’s online business competes primarily with other online literature websites in China, such as zongheng.com, 17k.com and zhulang.com. It also competes with Internet portals that offer literary content, such as sina.com, sohu.com and qq.com. Cloudary Corporation competes with these companies for content, readers, authors, advertisers and distribution channels. Cloudary Corporation competes primarily on the basis of the breadth and depth of literary content offered, and services provided to authors, readers, advertisers and distribution channels. In offline publishing, Cloudary Corporation competes mainly with private publishing companies in China, such as Beijing Motie Book Co., Ltd., Thinkingdom Media Group Ltd. and Beijing Booky Publishing Inc. Cloudary Corporation competes with these companies for authors, readers and sales channels. As Cloudary Corporation further develops its platform, it competes with other digital content aggregators for content and distribution channels. Cloudary Corporation’s competitors may compete with it in a variety of ways, including by obtaining exclusive online, digital or offline distribution rights for popular literary content, attracting authors with more favorable contractual terms, conducting brand promotions and other marketing activities, adopting more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and making acquisitions. For example, some of Cloudary Corporation’s competitors have in the past offered aggressive compensation and contract terms to attract Cloudary Corporation’s contracted authors in order to expand their market shares. Such competition may significantly increase the market price for literary content, cause Cloudary Corporation to lose its existing or potential authors and therefore materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Cloudary Corporation may not be able to compete effectively against its competitors in all respects. In addition, certain online literature websites, digital content providers or offline publishers may continue to offer pirated content for free or at lower prices. As a result, readers may be diverted away from Cloudary Corporation’s platform. Further, as the online and mobile literature industries in China are constantly evolving, Cloudary Corporation’s current or future online and mobile literature competitors may compete more successfully as the industry matures. Furthermore, any of Cloudary Corporation’s current or future competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other strategic or commercial relationships with larger, more established and better financed companies and therefore, obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and licensing and development resources than it does. If any of Cloudary Corporation’s competitors achieves greater market acceptance than it does or is able to offer more attractive literary content or to offer comparable literary content at lower cost, Cloudary Corporation’s users and market share may decrease, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Cloudary Corporation relies on chain and online bookstores and wholesalers for the sale of its offline publications. Cloudary Corporation’s offline publications are marketed through chain and online bookstores and wholesalers. Cloudary Corporation delivers the books substantially on consignment basis and only receives payments from the bookstores and wholesalers based on sales orders confirmed by both parties. Cloudary Corporation has no control over the books once they are delivered to, and has limited control over ultimate retail sales by, the bookstores and wholesalers and the retail stores that they operate. Cloudary Corporation does not own any interest in any online or chain bookstore or wholesaler or the retail stores they operate and is not involved in their daily operating, financing or other activities. The bookstores and wholesalers are not contractually obligated to work with Cloudary Corporation on an exclusive basis. Cloudary Corporation’s dependence on chain bookstores and wholesalers increases their bargaining power and the need for it to maintain good relationships with them. If any bookstore or wholesaler ceases to cooperate with Cloudary Corporation for any reason and it is not able to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, Cloudary Corporation may lose significant business. Cloudary Corporation’s dependence on chain bookstores and wholesalers also exposes it to risks associated with the internal management, financial condition and creditworthiness of such bookstores and wholesalers. To the extent that these chain bookstores and wholesalers significantly reduce their orders from Cloudary Corporation or are unable to pay Cloudary Corporation in a timely manner, or at all, due to the deterioration of their financial position or other reasons, Cloudary Corporation’s sales and revenues would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Cloudary Corporation may have to offer volume-based discounts or more favorable credit terms to the bookstores and wholesalers in the future, which may lower its operating profit. As Cloudary Corporation relies to a large extent on the bookstores and wholesalers for the sale of its offline publications, Cloudary Corporation’s future growth will also depend on the performance of the bookstores and wholesalers and their ability to expand their business and sales networks. In addition, any consolidation, restructuring, reorganization or other ownership change in the bookstores and wholesalers may have a material adverse effect on Cloudary Corporation’s sales. 29 Table of Contents Cloudary Corporation generally enters into framework agreements with the chain bookstores and wholesalers for a term of one to two years, renewable unless otherwise terminated. There is no assurance that Cloudary Corporation will be able to renew such agreements on terms that are favorable to it, or at all. In addition, there is no assurance that one or more of these major chain bookstores and wholesalers will not breach their agreements or fail to comply with their obligations thereunder. In such event or events, Cloudary Corporation’s results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Cloudary Corporation’s offline business depends on third-party delivery companies to deliver its publications, and their failure to provide high-quality delivery services to chain bookstores and wholesalers may materially and adversely affect Cloudary Corporation’s revenues, costs, inventory and profitability. Cloudary Corporation engages third-party delivery service providers for the shipment and delivery of its offline publications to chain bookstores or wholesalers. Interruptions to or failures in these third parties’ delivery services could prevent the timely or successful delivery of Cloudary Corporation’s publications. These interruptions may be due to unforeseen events that are beyond Cloudary Corporation’s control or the control of these third-party delivery companies, such as inclement weather, natural disasters or labor unrest. If Cloudary Corporation’s publications are not delivered on time or are delivered in a damaged state, the bookstores or wholesalers may refuse to accept such publications and have less confidence in its operations. Cloudary Corporation’s operating expenses and inventory risks will increase if the publications are delivered after the sales season or are damaged, and the bookstores or wholesalers decide to return such publications. As a result, Cloudary Corporation’s financial condition and market reputation could suffer. In addition, as local courier companies tend to be small companies with limited capital resources, they may be more likely to go bankrupt, close down or encounter financial difficulties, in which case Cloudary Corporation may not be able to retrieve its books in their possession, arrange for delivery of those books by an alternative carrier, receive the payments they collect for it, or hold them accountable for the losses they cause it. Although Cloudary Corporation is able to defer some of the payments due to the courier companies in order to cover the risks associated with potential damages or delay in the delivery, the courier companies may change this policy. Cloudary Corporation also expects gradual consolidation in the logistics industry, and Cloudary Corporation may experience disruption to its delivery network in areas covered by the companies undergoing acquisitions or integration, or Cloudary Corporation may experience difficulty in negotiating favorable terms with such companies. The occurrence of any of these problems, alone or together, could damage Cloudary Corporation’s reputation and materially and adversely affect its business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Other Businesses The risk factors set forth below are believed to be important in that they may have a material impact upon the future financial performance of our other businesses. For more information on the contribution of those businesses to our company’s financial results, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” 30 Table of Contents Hurray depends on China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, the three principal telecommunications network operators in China, for the major portion of its revenue. Hurray offers its services over mobile networks to consumers through the telecommunications operators. These principal operators service the major portion of China’s approximately 770 million mobile phone subscribers as of December 31, 2010, according to the 2010 Statistic Bulletin on National Telecommunication Industry issued by China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Hurray’s agreements with these operators and their provincial affiliates are non-exclusive and have a limited term (generally one year for China Mobile and one or two years for China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited, or China Unicom). Hurray usually renews these agreements or enters into new ones when the prior agreements expire, but occasionally the renewal or new agreements can be delayed by periods of one month or more. If any of China Mobile, China Unicom or China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom ceases to continue to cooperate with Hurray, it would be impossible to find appropriate replacement telecommunications operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer Hurray’s wireless value-added services, or WVAS to customers of such telecommunications operator. Hurray derived approximately 53.0% of its combined wireless revenue from China Mobile, 20.8% from China Unicom, and 12.8% from China Telecom in 2010. In addition, the PRC government has extensive involvement in determining the structure of the telecommunications industry in China. During the development of this industry, changes in government policy have resulted in major restructurings of the telecommunications operators, including the establishment of new operators and the combination of all or part of existing operators. In an effort to promote greater competition among the telecommunications operators and foster the development of 3G mobile networks, on May 24, 2008, the MIIT, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the PRC Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Reform of Telecommunications Systems, or the Telecommunications Notice, which aims to consolidate China’s existing telecommunications operators into three new telecommunications operators that can offer both mobile and fixed-line services. Under the Telecommunications Notice, China Mobile merged with China Railway Communication Co., Ltd., which operated a national fixed-line network, China Telecom acquired the Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) wireless business and network from China Unicom, and China Unicom, which operates a Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) network and business, merged with China Netcom, which was principally a fixed-line operator. Due to the restructuring, Hurray’s services to China Telecom have increased and its services to China Unicom have decreased beginning from October 1, 2008, the date that China Telecom officially acquired the CDMA wireless business and network from China Unicom. On January 7, 2009, the MIIT issued 3G licenses to China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. China Mobile operates the TD-SCDMA network, China’s self-developed 3G standard, China Unicom operates the WCDMA, a 3G standard originally developed in Europe, and China Telecom operates CDMA2000, a 3G standard originally developed in the U.S. Any future significant restructuring of any segment of the telecommunications industry in China, including in particular China Mobile, China Unicom or China Telecom (which are collectively referred to hereinafter in this annual report on Form 20-F as the “telecommunications operators”) or any other telecommunications operators in China and the potential combination of the mobile operations of various telecommunications operators in China, could significantly affect Hurray’s relationships with these telecommunications operators. Due to Hurray’s reliance on the telecommunications operators for its WVAS, any loss or deterioration of its relationships with them, due to their own business decisions or government imposed restructurings, may result in severe disruptions to its business operations and the loss of a significant portion of revenue. Hurray may not be able to successfully negotiate favorable terms with the telecommunications operators and their provincial affiliates. Given the dominant market position of China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, Hurray’s leverage with these telecommunications operators is limited in terms of negotiating agreements, resolving disputes or otherwise. In particular, its agreements with them can be terminated in advance, penalties may be imposed or other parts of its services may be suspended or terminated, and approval for its new services may be delayed for a variety of reasons which vary among the individual agreements with the telecommunications operators, including, for example, if Hurray breaches its obligations under the agreements, a high number of customer complaints are made about its services or it cannot satisfy the operational or financial performance criteria established by the applicable telecommunications operator. 31 Table of Contents Hurray may also be compelled to alter its agreements with these telecommunications operators in ways which adversely affect its business, such as by limiting the services it can offer or imposing other changes that limit the revenue it can derive from such agreements. In the past, telecommunications operators have entered into new contracts in certain provinces with service providers which change the share percentages it retained for customer payments. The percentage of the payments from customers received by service providers has been decreasing since 2006. Hurray may not be able to adequately respond to any such changes because it is not able to predict whether the telecommunications operators will unilaterally amend its contracts with them. Unilateral changes in the policies of the MIIT and the telecommunications operators and in the enforcement of their policies have resulted in service suspensions and Hurray having to pay additional charges to the telecommunications operators. The MIIT and the telecommunications operators have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the WVAS industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the telecommunications operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality and increase customer satisfaction. For example, in May 2007, China Mobile began the operational practice of displaying service fee reminders and seeking express confirmation prior to processing the wireless application protocol (“WAP”) page download requests of mobile phone users. China Mobile also began the practice of only including links to its own WVAS offerings on the embedded menus of certain mobile handsets with customized software for China Mobile users. In the past, such embedded menus featured links to all popular products offered on China Mobile’s networks, including Hurray’s products. In August 2007, the MIIT introduced new policies regarding WVAS that mobile phone users subscribe to on a free trial basis. Service providers are required to notify such mobile phone users once the free trial period ends and must obtain confirmation from them prior to charging them for continued subscription to the services. Upon obtaining such confirmation, service providers are then required to notify mobile phone users of the exact pricing for such service and send billing reminders to them. In November 2009, the telecommunication operators suspended the ability of their WAP service partners to charge for services in order to eradicate mobile pornography from their networks. The suspension applied to all telecommunication operators’ WAP service partners in China, regardless of its propensity to disseminate pornography. The telecommunication operators have not yet indicated how long their suspensions would last or whether they will expand the scope of such suspension. These have had adverse impact on Hurray’s business. In addition, in the last several years, acting under the guidance of the MIIT, the telecommunications operators have been enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and have initiated steps to improve customer service. This rigorous enforcement has resulted in a number of severe penalties imposed on Hurray and other participants in the market in recent years. Penalties have included precluding service providers from offering certain services over a mobile operator’s network or from offering new services for a fixed period. Hurray may not be able to adequately respond to these or other developments in mobile operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the telecommunications operators’ policies are in a state of fluctuation at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints have no merit), we cannot be certain that Hurray’s business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite its efforts to so comply. Accordingly, Hurray may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which Hurray believed to be permissible. Any future noncompliance with the telecommunications operators’ policies by Hurray whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on its revenue and profitability. 32 Table of Contents The telecommunications operators may impose higher service or network fees on Hurray for their own business purposes or if Hurray is unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria. Fees for Hurray’s WVAS are charged on a monthly subscription or per-use basis. As provided in its network service agreements, Hurray relies on the telecommunications operators for both billing of and collection from, mobile phone users of fees for its services. As noted above under “— Risks Related to Our Other Businesses — Hurray may not be able to successfully negotiate favorable terms with the telecommunications operators and their provincial affiliates,” Hurray’s negotiating leverage with the telecommunications operators is limited. As a result, the telecommunications operators could for their own business purposes unilaterally amend Hurray’s agreements with them to increase the service or network fees that they retain from the revenues generated by Hurray’s WVAS. In addition, under these agreements, these service fees in some cases rise if Hurray fails to meet certain customer usage, revenues and other performance criteria. Moreover, for 2G services, to the extent that the number of messages sent by Hurray over networks of the telecommunications operators exceeds the number of messages its customers send to it, it must pay per message network fees. The number of messages sent by Hurray will exceed those sent by its users, for example, if a user sends Hurray a single message to order a game but Hurray in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that Hurray will be able to satisfy any performance criteria in the future or that the telecommunications operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. Any increase in the service or network fees of the telecommunications operators could reduce its gross margins. The telecommunications operators may change their practices with regard to how service selections appear on their WAP portals. The current practice of the telecommunications operators is generally to place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. Services at the top of the menu are more accessible and therefore more frequently accessed than those services lower on the menu. This effectively reinforces the position of the most popular services. The placement of services on these menus creates significant competitive advantages for the top-ranked services and significant challenges for newer and less popular services. We believe that Hurray’s prominent position on the WAP portals of the telecommunications operators has historically helped Hurray maintain its position in the market. If any of the telecommunications operators changes its current practices so that the most popular services are not those that are the most accessible to customers, restricts the number or type of services a service provider is permitted to place on service menus or adopts new interface technologies that eliminate the current service menus, Hurray’s services could become more difficult for users to access and could, therefore, become less popular. In addition, China Mobile only includes links to its own WVAS offerings on the embedded menus of mobile handsets with customized software for China Mobile users while excluding links to products from third-party WVAS service providers such as Hurray. This practice has adversely affected Hurray’s revenues. If additional similar changes occur, they will likely materially and adversely affect the revenue from Hurray’s services. Other Risks Related to Our Businesses Acquisitions and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We may also reorganize our business, including disposition of certain assets. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions to strengthen or supplement our core online interactive entertainment business. These transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in line with our objective to improve our operating results, we may reorganize our business, including the disposition of certain assets and business units in order to allow management to focus on our core businesses. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology or reorganizing has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include: • implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company; • diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; • coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions; • transition of operations, users and customers onto our existing platforms; 33 Table of Contents • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; • retention of employees from the businesses we acquire; • integration of the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems; • liability for activities of the acquired company before and after the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; • litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former shareholders or other third parties; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • failure to successfully further develop the acquired business. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions, investments and reorganizations could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions or reorganizations could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Also, the anticipated benefit of such acquisitions, investments or reorganizations may not materialize. Furthermore, we may incur significant costs related to such transactions, including legal, accounting and other fees and expenses. There can be no assurance that our diversification strategy will achieve its intented strategic objectives or improve our results of operations. We plan to further diversify our business to other related interactive media businesses. Each new business line may require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop a new line of business and integrate it with our operations. We may experience delays, regulatory impediments and other complications in implementing our diversification strategy that could reduce our profitability and ultimately cause the strategy to fail. These complications may include obtaining licenses and registrations, adapting our technology platform, hiring personnel and raising capital. Our expansion into new businesses will increase capital expenditures and research and development expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Videos, literary and other content displayed on our website or published by us may be found objectionable by PRC regulatory authorities and may subject us to penalties and other administrative actions. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of videos, literary and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China or the public interest, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Furthermore, Internet content providers are also prohibited from displaying content that may be deemed by relevant government authorities as “socially destabilizing” or leaking “state secrets” of the PRC. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide Internet content or other licenses, the closure of the concerned websites and reputational harm. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to their websites. In the event that the PRC regulatory authorities find the videos, literary content and other information on our websites or published by us objectionable or otherwise in violation of PRC laws or regulations, and impose penalties on us or take other administrative actions against us in the future, our business, results of operations and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents For example, Ku6 and Cloudary Corporation allow their users to upload videos and literary content, either self-created or third-party-produced to their websites. Although both of them have adopted internal procedures to monitor the content displayed on their websites, due to the significant amount of content uploaded by their users they may not be able to identify all the content that may violate relevant laws and regulations. Failure to identify and prevent illegal or inappropriate content from being displayed on their websites may subject them to liability. In addition, these laws and regulations are subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, and it may not be possible to determine in all cases the types of content that could result in our PRC entities’ liability as a website operator. We may be subject to administrative actions by PRC regulatory authorities and other liabilities because of advertisements shown on our websites. Under PRC advertising laws and regulations, we are obligated to monitor the advertising content shown on our websites to ensure that such content is true, accurate and in full compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations. In addition, where a special government review is required for specific types of advertisements prior to website posting, such as advertisements relating to pharmaceuticals, medical instruments, agrochemicals and veterinary pharmaceuticals, we are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained from competent PRC regulatory authorities. Violation of these laws and regulations may subject us to penalties, including fines, confiscation of our advertising income, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an announcement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, such as posting a pharmaceutical product advertisement without approval, or posting an advertisement for fake pharmaceutical product, PRC regulatory authorities may force us to terminate our advertising operation or even revoke our business licenses. A majority of the advertisements shown on our websites are provided to us by advertising agencies on behalf of advertisers. While significant efforts have been made to ensure that the advertisements shown on our websites are in full compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that all the content contained in such advertisements is true and accurate as required by the PRC advertising laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of applicable PRC advertising laws and regulations in the future, we may be subject to penalties and our reputation may be harmed, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that entertainment content available on our website does not and will not infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be perceived or alleged to infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties and become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property rights of others. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to monetary damages and be enjoined from using such intellectual property, or we may incur new or additional licensing costs if we wish to continue using the infringing content, be forced to develop or license alternatives or be forced to stop operating such entertainment content, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and require significant attention of management in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including some of our current and potential competitors. To the extent these employees or any employees we may hire in the future are involved in research that is similar to the research that they performed at their former employers, our competitors may file lawsuits or initiate proceedings against us alleging that these employees violated the intellectual property rights, such as trade secret rights, of their former employers. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened claims alleging these types of violations of intellectual property rights, if any such claim arises in the future, litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings may be necessary to retain our ability to offer our current and future entertainment content, which could be costly and divert financial and management resources. 35 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may adversely affect our business and reputation. In particular, piracy is a long-standing problem in China. Many websites in China attract user traffic by making pirated content available for free and derive advertising revenue from such pirated content. Online piracy, facilitated by Internet search engines, undermines the paid reading/playing model and has been the primary impediment to the greater development of China’s online industry. We rely on copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property law, as well as noncompetition, confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, licensors, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Our employees are generally required to sign agreements acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any ownership rights that they may claim in those works. Despite our precautions, third parties may obtain and use intellectual property that we own or license without our consent. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights may materially and adversely affect our business. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC are uncertain and do not protect intellectual property rights in this area to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States and other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual properties is difficult and expensive. Any steps we have taken to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual properties may be inadequate. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully adopt new technologies or adapt our websites and systems to user and customer requirements or emerging industry standards, our business, prospects and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our websites and our platform. The Internet and the online and mobile content industries are characterized by rapid technological evolution, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent introductions of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary technologies and systems obsolete. For example, the number of people accessing the Internet via devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones and other hand-held devices, such as mobile tablets, has increased in recent years and is expected to continue to increase in the future. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, develop, acquire or license leading technologies useful in our business, enhance our existing content offering and services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective licensors, users and advertisers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of our websites, our platform and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to use new technologies effectively or adapt our websites, proprietary technologies and transaction-processing systems to user requirements or emerging industry standards. Our third-party partners may find our platform unsuitable for their business needs. If we are unable to adapt in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or user requirements, whether for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents The proper functioning of our websites is essential to our online content business and any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, security and integrity of such websites will materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, our transaction-processing systems and our network infrastructure are critical to our success and our ability to attract and retain licensor and users and maintain adequate user service levels. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure, including as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods, may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to retain existing and attract new licensors and other users. We maintain a distributed server network architecture with third-party service providers hosting servers in more than one hundred cities throughout China. We do not maintain full backup for our server network hardware. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include any breakdowns or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware. In the past, our server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third-party service providers. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer virus, hackings and similar events. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our content or deterioration in the quality of access to our content could reduce our users’ satisfaction. In addition, any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unlike insurance companies in more developed markets, insurance companies in China currently offer a very limited range of insurance products. Other than property and casualty insurance for some of our assets and directors and officers insurance, we do not have insurance to cover our business or interruptions of our business, litigation or product liability. Furthermore, the cost of insuring against these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms generally make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence of loss or damage to our property, litigation or business disruption may cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of Tianqiao Chen, our founder, chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer and president, in our business operations, and rely on his personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, our content providers and service suppliers. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our content offerings. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. Furthermore, we do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. 37 Table of Contents You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by any of the factors identified in this section, including, but not limited to: • our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; • the announcement or introduction of, or updates to, our existing games and other entertainment content by us or our competitors; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • governmental regulations; • seasonality effect for our business; • a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust to our users’ spending quickly; • the inability to direct the performance of our independent public subsidiaries, Shanda Games and Ku6; • the introduction and nationwide roll-out of the third-generation wireless telecommunications network in China; and • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the online entertainment industry and China. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. We may need to record impairment charges to earnings if our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets is determined to be impaired. We acquire, invest in or license content from various content providers and record any acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies and acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet in connection with such acquisitions, investments and licensing, respectively. We are required to review our acquisition goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our investments in affiliate companies and acquired intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, including a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slow down in our industry, which may result from recent global economic slowdown. If the carrying value of our acquisition goodwill, investments in affiliate companies or acquired intangible assets were determined to be impaired, we would be required to write down the carrying value. For example, we completed the purchase of a 29.9% equity stake in Actoz, the co-owner of Mir II, in February 2005, for a total consideration of RMB878 million (US$106.1 million), which represented an 81% premium over the open market price at the time that we entered into the purchase agreement in October 2004. In the fourth quarter of 2005, however, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of RMB521.5 million (US$64.6 million) to reflect the fair value of our 38.1% stake in Actoz. We recognized the impairment charge primarily as a result of the continued decline in royalties payable to Actoz from our operation of Mir II in China. The decision to recognize impairment was also influenced by the decline in the market price for shares of Actoz, which in the fourth quarter of 2005 was determined to be other than temporary, mainly due to the continued decline in Mir II royalties. 38 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to effectively integrate the operation of the acquired companies into our own and achieve the synergies contemplated at the time of entering into these transactions. If we are unable to achieve the synergies contemplated at the time of acquiring these companies, the carrying value of the acquired companies may not be recoverable. We are required by U.S. GAAP to review the impairment of goodwill at least on an annual basis. If an impairment is determined and charged to the earnings in our financial statements, we would be required to record charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We may lose the ability to consolidate certain of our businesses in our financial statements if our ownership percentage in those businesses is diluted. We currently consolidate several businesses in which we hold less than 100% of the outstanding equity interests. These businesses may issue stock in connection with business transactions that could dilute our ownership percentage such that we no longer control those businesses and in which event we would have to deconsolidate them from our financial statements. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”), as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their respective annual reports. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. Although our management and our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010, the management of Ku6, one of our consolidated PRC entities, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Ku6’s internal control over financial reporting and concluded that Ku6’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2010 as a result of one identified material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. Ku6’s independent registered public accounting firm audited the effectiveness of Ku6’s internal control and reported that its internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2010 as a result of the material weakness identified. The material weakness identified relates to the lack of sufficient competent accounting personnel with appropriate levels of accounting knowledge and experiences to address complex U.S. GAAP accounting issues and prepare financial statements and related disclosures under U.S. GAAP. Further, Ku6’s management concluded that, as of December 31, 2010, its disclosure controls and procedures were not effective because of this identified material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we will not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online service, including online billing and payment service, customer service, prepaid card distributions, user authentication and data support service and online culture industry, including online game, online literature and online video, we could be subject to severe penalties. Foreign ownership of publishing and Internet-based businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates Internet access, the distribution of online content and the conduct of online commerce through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that operate Internet-based businesses. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own any equity interests in any entity conducting an online culture, online and offline publishing, general distribution and improtation of books, newspapers and magazines, and publishing, production and import of audio-video products and electronic publications. Since we are a Cayman Islands company and therefore are a foreign or foreign-invested enterprise under PRC laws, neither we nor our PRC subsidiaries are eligible to hold a license to operate an Internet-based business in China. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into between our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries, our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders. “Our PRC operating companies” refers to the Shengzhan entities, the Hongwen entities, the Bianfeng entities, Haofang, the Hurray, the Ku6 entities and the SDG entities. Our PRC operating companies hold the licenses that are essential to the operation of our business. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Regulatory Matters —Regulation of Foreign Ownership Restriction in Value Added Telecommunications Industry.” The contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders enable us to exercise effective control over our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders. We also have an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in our PRC operating companies when and to the extent permitted by PRC laws. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we are considered the primary beneficiary of our PRC operating companies and consolidate the results of operations of our PRC operating companies in our financial statements. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Zhong Lun Law firm, in all material aspects, our current ownership structure, the ownership structure of our PRC subsidiaries and PRC operating companies and the contractual arrangements between our respective PRC subsidiaries, our PRC operating companies and their shareholders are in compliance with existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view that is contrary to the view of our PRC counsel. If we, our PRC subsidiaries or any of our PRC operating companies are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business licenses or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or PRC operating companies; • discontinuing or restricting our operations in China, including shutting down our servers or blocking our websites or discontinuing or placing restrictions or onerous conditions on our operations; • confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or PRC operating companies; • requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring such as forcing us to transfer our equity interest in our PRC subsidiaries to a domestic entity or invalidating the agreements that our PRC subsidiaries have has entered into with our PRC oeprating companies and their respective shareholders; • restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from public offering to finance our business and operations in China; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations, including rendering us unable to (i) access cash and other assets of, (ii) exercise our ownership rights in, and (iii) consolidate our PRC operating companies and their respective subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. 40 Table of Contents The contractual arrangements related to critical aspects of our operations with our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders to operate our business. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over our PRC operating companies. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly or indirectly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the boards of our PRC operating companies, which, in turn, could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our PRC operating companies or their respective shareholders fails to perform its, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may include seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, any of which may not be effective. Pursuant to equity pledge agreements, the shareholders of our PRC operating companies have pledged their ordinary shares in our PRC operating companies to several of our PRC subsidiaries. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, which became effective October 1, 2007, a pledge is created only when such pledge is registered with the relevant Administration for Industry and Commerce. We have registered the equity pledges of the shareholders of Shanda Networking, Shanghai Shulong and Hongwen with the relevant Administration for Industry and Commerce. Ku6 is in the process of registering the equity pledges of the Ku6 VIEs with the relevant Administration for Industry and Commerce. However, all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to exert effective control over our PRC operating companies, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. Shareholders of our PRC operating companies may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company. We conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate substantially all of our revenues, through our PRC operating companies. Our control over these entities is based upon the VIE agreements which are contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies and their respective shareholders that provide us with the substantial ability to control our PRC operating companies. These shareholders may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company. For example, the two shareholders of Shanda Networking, Tianqiao Chen and Danian Chen, are also our controlling shareholders. As a result, they may be able to cause the contractual arrangements they have entered into with us to be amended in a manner to maximize their interest, economically or otherwise, even if such amendment is contrary to the interest of our company and our other shareholders. Although our audit committee charter requires the approval of our audit committee, which is comprised of our independent directors, to make any amendment to these agreements, we cannot assure you that such mechanism will be effective in preventing such amendment. Furthermore, the shareholders of our PRC operating companies may breach their contracts with us if they believe such action furthers their own interest, or if they otherwise act in bad faith. In particular, the two shareholders of Shanghai Shulong, Dongxu Wang and Yingfeng Zhang and the two shareholders of Hongwen, Dongxu Wang and Mingfeng Chen are not our directors or principal shareholders. Therefore, they do not owe any fiduciary duty to our company and given that their economic stake in us is relatively small compared to their ownership interest in Shanghai Shulong and Hongwen, they may take actions that adversely affect us. If the shareholders of our PRC operating companies breach their contracts with us or otherwise have disputes with us, we may have to initiate legal proceedings, which involves significant uncertainty. Such disputes and proceedings may significantly disrupt our business operations, adversely affect our ability to control our PRC operating companies, and we cannot assure you that the outcome of such disputes and proceedings will be in our favor. 41 Table of Contents Our arrangements with our PRC operating companies may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities for transfer pricing adjustments. We also could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with our PRC operating companies were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although we based our contractual arrangements on those of similar businesses, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recorded by our PRC operating companies, which could adversely affect us by: • increasing our PRC operating companies’ tax liability without reducing our PRC subsidiaries’ tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our PRC operating companies for underpaid taxes; or • limiting our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to maintain preferential tax treatments and government financial incentives, if the transfer pricing adjustment is significant. As a result, any transfer pricing adjustment could have a material and adverse impact upon our financial condition. Our corporate structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one PRC entity to another in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our PRC operating companies. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to allow us to pay dividends on the shares underlying our ADSs and the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur, or financing we may need for operations other than through our PRC subsidiaries. If our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to the intermediate holding company and thus to us. We generate substantially all of our revenues through contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies. However, PRC governmental authorities may require us to amend these contractual arrangements in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, our PRC subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us in the form of dividends or other distributions which restricted portion amounted to approximately RMB3,400.2 million (US$515.2 million), or 39.1%, of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2010. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends or other distributions could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay debt or dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In addition, any transfer of funds from us to any of our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. Our PRC subsidiaries and operating companies are not permitted under PRC law to directly lend money to each other. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our company to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries and operating companies could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one PRC entity to another in a timely manner. 42 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our company to liabilities or penalties, limit our ability to contribute capital to our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated several regulations, including the Notice Concerning Foreign Exchange Controls on Domestic Residents’ Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, effective on November 1, 2005. These regulations and rules require PRC residents and corporate entities to register with, and obtain approval from, provincial SAFE branches in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations and rules apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under Circular 75, a PRC resident who makes, or has previously made, a direct or indirect investment in an offshore company is required to register that investment. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update the previously filed registration with the relevant provincial SAFE branch to reflect any material change with respect to the offshore company’s roundtrip investment, capital variation, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required registration or update the previously filed registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from contributing additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various foreign exchange registration requirements described above could result in liability under the PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We are committed to complying with and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to SAFE regulations file the necessary registrations and amendments required under Circular 75 and related rules. We have requested our relevant shareholders who are subject to SAFE regulations to make the necessary filings. However, we may not be fully informed of the identities of the beneficial owners of our company. There is no assurance that our shareholders and beneficial owners of our shares who are PRC residents can complete the necessary registrations and amendments under Circular 75 in a timely manner or at all, or will comply with the requirements under Circular 75 or other related rules in the future. A failure by any of our shareholders or beneficial owners of our shares who are PRC residents to comply with these regulations and rules could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make distributions to, or obtain foreign currency-denominated loans from, us, as well as restrictions on our ability to increase our investment in China. As a result, our business and prospects, as well as our ability to distribute profits to you, could be materially and adversely affected. The laws and regulations governing the online entertainment industry in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating companies fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. The online entertainment industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the Ministry of Culture, or the MOC, the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or the SARFT, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to promulgate and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and the online entertainment industry. 43 Table of Contents Our PRC operating companies are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their services. For example, an Internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain a value- added telecommunications business operation license, or ICP license, from the MIIT or its local offices in order to engage in any commercial operations online within China. An online game operator must also obtain an Internet culture operation license from the MOC, an Internet publishing license from the GAPP in order to distribute games and literary content through the Internet. SDG entities currently hold ICP licenses, the Internet culture operation licenses, and the Internet publishing licenses. We are in the process of applying for (i) the ICP licenses for five websites that are operated by Cloudary Corporation, (ii) the Internet transmission audio-visual program license for tingbook.com, and (iii) applying for the requisite Internet publishing license for all websites operated by Cloudary Corporation other than qidian.com. If any of our PRC operating companies fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals or if our practice is later challenged by government authorities, they may also be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation of or restriction on our operations. Any such disruption in business operations would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As the online entertainment industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time. For example, in December 2009, different regulatory authorities may have different views regarding the licensing requirements for the operation of online entertainment and related businesses. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the online entertainment industry and related businesses. While we believe that we comply with all material respects with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. If we are required to comply with or are found to violate any laws or regulations governing virtual currency, prepaid card issuance and usage, online payment or money laundering, we may have to obtain additional licenses or approvals, be forced to change our current business practice, or be subject to certain penalties. On April 16, 2009, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, issued a notice regarding the payment and clearance business carried out by non-financial institutions, or the PBOC Notice. The PBOC Notice required non-financial institutions which engage in payment and clearance business to register with PBOC before July 31, 2009. On June 14, 2010, the PBOC issued the Administrative Measures for the Payment Services Provided by Non-financial Institutions, or the PBOC Administrative Measures.According to the PBOC Administrative Measures, the payment services provided by non-financial institutions includes online payment, issuance and acceptance of prepaid cards, bankcard acquiring and other payment services as specified by the PBOC.The PBOC Administrative Measures required a non-financial institutions with providing payment services to obtain a license for payment business before September 1, 2011. Because certain services currently provided by Shanda Online may be subject to the requirements of the PBOC Notice and the PBOC Administrative Measures, Shanghai Shengfutong Electronic Business Co. or Shengfutong, the wholly owned subsidiary of Shanda Online has registered with PBOC and has applied the license for payment business with PBOC and obtained the license already. On June 4, 2009, the MOC and the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, jointly issued a notice regarding strengthening online game virtual currency administration, or the Virtual Currency Notice. The Virtual Currency Notice requires enterprises which issue online game virtual currency (in the form of prepaid card, prepayment or prepaid card point) or provide online game virtual currency transaction services, to apply for approval from the MOC through its provincial branches within 3 months following the date of the Virtual Currency Notice. Any enterprises which fail to submit the application will be subject to sanctions. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice regulates, among other items, the amount of virtual currency an enterprise can issue, the retention period of user record, the function of virtual currency, and the return of unused virtual currency upon termination of online services. The Virtual Currency Notice prohibits enterprises, which provide online game virtual currency transaction services, from providing transaction services to players under the age of 18. It also prohibits online game operators from awarding in-game items or virtual currency to players based on random selection through lucky draws, wagers or lotteries. 44 Table of Contents On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued Interim Measures for Online Games Administration, or the Online Game Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2010, aiming to further strengthen the MOC’s supervision of the online game industry, including the issuance and trade of virtual currency in online games. According to the Online Game Measures, a online game operator who issue the virtual currency must obtain a license for Internet culture operation from the MOC. Our PRC operating companies which issue online game virtual currency or provide online game virtual currency transaction services have applied for and obtained the above mentioned approval or license for their online game virtual currency related businesses. If our current or future operations are found to violate the Virtual Currency Notice and Online Game Measures or any other related regulations, our business and financial condition, operation results and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Negative publicity in China has resulted in additional government regulations directed at online entertainment. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly provoked by, or committed in connection with, online entertainment, especially online games. In addition, there have been widespread negative media reports that focus on how online games are addictive, how excessive game playing could distract students and interfere with their education, and how online game platforms provide a virtual casino for the users. Certain non-governmental organizations may also organize protests or publicity campaigns against online game companies in order to protect youth from the risk of becoming addicted to certain online games. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to such games, particularly by minors. In 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT, jointly issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an “anti-fatigue compliance system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue compliance system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy”, three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing”, and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. It is unclear whether these restrictions would be expanded to apply to adult game players in the future. More stringent government regulations, including stricter anti-fatigue rules, could discourage game players from playing Shanda Games’ games, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation recently announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. However, it is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on Shanda Games’ game players or our business. Furthermore, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where Shanda Games licenses out its online games, which could materially and adversely affect its overseas licensing revenues. Shanda Games may be required to reapply for approvals for imported online game products. The MOC issued a Circular Concerning the Examination and Declaration of Imported Online Game Products on April 24, 2009. According to this circular, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the game’s existing import approval will be automatically revoked and the new operator must apply to the MOC for a new approval for the same game. As this circular is newly issued, it remains unclear how and to what extent this circular will be implemented or enforced. On September 28, 2009, the GAPP, together with two other government authorities, issued a circular ( Xin Chu Lian [2009] No. 13) which contains a similar provision to the MOC circular mentioned above. The GAPP circular also requires that, in the event of a change of the operator of an imported online game, the new operator must apply to the GAPP for a new approval for the same game, and the operation of the online game should be suspended until the GAPP approves the change in operator. 45 Table of Contents Shanda Games currently operates substantially all of its imported online games under import approvals granted by the MOC to Shanda Networking. Under the above mentioned circulars, Shanda Games may be required to reapply to the GAPP and the MOC for approvals for imported online games granted to any of its affiliates. Shanda Games is committed to complying with the requirements of these circulars. However, we cannot assure you that Shanda Games will succeed in obtaining all the approvals as required by these circulars in time or at all. If Shanda Games fails to comply with the requirements of these circulars or fails to obtain all the approvals for its imported online games, it may be subject to fines, revocation of its operating licenses, the discontinuation or restrictions on its operations and other sanctions that may be imposed by the GAPP and the MOC. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The PRC government has tightened its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently one of the primary venues for Shanda Games’ users to play online games. Internet cafes are one of the primary places where Shanda Games’ games are played. In March 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafes. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafes have been closed. The PRC government has also imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafes. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafes, may slow down the growth of Internet cafes. In February 2004, the government agencies in charge of Internet cafe licensing jointly issued a notice suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses for a period of six months. In February 2007, 14 PRC government departments jointly issued a circular to strengthen the regulation of Internet cafes and online games. According to the circular, local authorities were banned from issuing new Internet cafe licenses for the remainder of 2007. Since this ban was imposed in 2007, to our knowledge, local authorities have not issued new Internet cafe licenses and it is unclear when local authorities will be permitted to issue new licenses again. In March 2010, the Ministry of Culture issued a circular to increase the punishment on Internet cafes which allow minors to enter and use the Internet in their cafes. According to this circular, among other things, the authorities may revoke an Internet cafe’s Internet culture operation license if that Internet cafe allows three or more minors to enter and use Internet in its cafe at one time. Governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as the customers’ age limit and hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to Internet cafes. Since a substantial portion of our users play our games in Internet cafes, any reduction in the number, or slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafes in China, or any new regulatory restrictions on their operations, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our game player base, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and growth prospects. The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content deemed to be inappropriate. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information, published works or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it believes violates PRC law. The MIIT, the GAPP and the MOC have promulgated regulations that prohibit games from being distributed through the Internet if the games contain content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of China, or compromise state security or secrets. In addition, certain PRC social organizations have recently discussed the possibility of implementing a rating system for online entertainment. The effect that such a system could have on our business is unclear. If any content we offer were deemed to violate any such content restrictions, we would not obtain the GAPP approval, may not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of our licenses for operating such online entertainment content, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for unlawful actions of our users or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. Furthermore, we may be required to delete content that violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our online entertainment content or other services in China. 46 Table of Contents In February 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, the MOC, the MIIT and the GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling. In order to clamp down on online games that involve gambling and online betting as well as address concerns that “virtual currency” might be used for money laundering or illicit trade, the circular (i) requires that online entertainment operators shall not charge commissions that employ “virtual currency” or other means in relation to winning or losing of games; (ii) requires online entertainment operators to set up quantity limits in guessing and betting games by using virtual currency; (iii) bans the exchange of “virtual currency” into real currencies or properties; and (iv) bans the provision of services for virtual currency transfer among game players. In February 2007, 14 PRC regulatory authorities jointly promulgated a circular with regard to further strengthening management of Internet cafes and online entertainment, according to which “virtual currency” shall be strictly regulated by the PBOC, and in particular: (i) the aggregate amount of “virtual currency” issued by online entertainment operators and the amount of “virtual currency” purchased by each individual online game player shall be restricted; (ii) “virtual currency” issued by online entertainment operators can only be used for purchasing virtual products and services provided by the online entertainment operators and shall not be used for purchasing tangible or physical products; (iii) the price for converting “virtual currency” back into the official currency by consumers shall not exceed the respective original purchase price; and (iv) trading of “virtual currency” is banned. We believe our online entertainment operations are in compliance with the provisions of these two circulars in all material aspects. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of these two circulars, and we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem our online operations to be in violation of either of these two circulars, the PBOC may confiscate the revenues generated through these illegal activities and/or impose fines on us in accordance with the Law of the PBOC and our business will be materially and adversely affected. It is unclear whether we will be subject to other penalties under current PRC laws. Currently there are no laws or regulations in the PRC specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online entertainment businesses may have for virtual assets. Our online entertainment offerings may allow users to acquire virtual assets, for which there are no governing laws or regulations in China. For example, in the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and in some cases are exchanged between players for monetary value. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently, there are no PRC laws or regulations specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, it is unclear who is the legal owner of virtual assets and whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by our online users and may be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shanda Games has been involved in a number of lawsuits related to its in-game items in its online games, most of which have been settled and some of which are ongoing. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as Shanda Games would have any liability to game players or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments by PRC courts regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required online game operators to return such lost virtual items or be liable for the loss and damage incurred therefrom. 47 Table of Contents Due to our leading position in several Internet-related industries, we may be subject to claims under the PRC Anti-Monopoly Law. China enacted the Anti-Monopoly Law, or the AML, which became effective on August 1, 2008. The AML prohibits certain monopolistic acts which result or could result in the elimination or restriction of competition, including without limitation, monopolistic agreements, abuse of dominant market position and concentration of businesses that may have the effect to eliminate or restrict competition. We may be deemed to have a dominant market position in certain markets in which we operate by the relevant PRC regulatory authorities due to our current market share. For instance, according to the iResearch report, Cloudary Corporation accounted for a 71.5% of China’s online literature market in terms of revenues and 60.6% of the market in terms of user time spent in 2010. If we or any of our subsidiaries are deemed (i) to have a dominant market position and (ii) to have abused such dominant market position, the relevant PRC regulatory authority may, at its discretion, confiscate any illegal gains and impose a fine of 1% to 10% of our revenues in the preceding financial year and impose other penalties. In addition, pursuant to the AML and the relevant regulations, when a concentration of businesses occurs and reaches certain thresholds, the relevant entity is required to receive pre-clearance of the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM. Otherwise, the MOFCOM may suspend the concentration, dispose of shares or assets, transfer the concentrated business or take any other necessary measures to restore the situation prior to the concentration. The relevant entity may also be held liable for a fine of up to RMB500,000 or any loss or damages to any person due to the consolidation. We and our subsidiaries have acquired various entities to grow our business and may continue to acquire or merge with other enterprises to maintain our and our subsidiaries’ leading position in their respective market. Complying with the requirements of the AML and the relevant regulations could make completion of our future acquisitions time-consuming, complex and difficult. There are uncertainties as to whether we will be able to obtain the pre-clearance of the MOFCOM for any acquisition that would trigger the AML. This could delay or hinder our ability to complete future acquisitions and impede our strategy to grow through acquisitions. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal conditions and developments in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including in the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth since the late 1970’s, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented numerous measures to encourage economic growth and to guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, but also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect general economic conditions in China and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 48 Table of Contents A severe and prolonged global economic recession and the corresponding slowdown in the Chinese economy could affect our business. The effect of the recent global financial crisis has persisted, with most of the world’s major economies remaining in recession in 2010. While there has been improvement in some areas, it is still unclear whether the recovery is sustainable. There are uncertainties over the impact of the proposed €110 billion bailout of Greece by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund and the impact this may have on the global economy. There is also considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the global housing and mortgage markets and the European debt crisis have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The grim economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. The Chinese economy also faces challenges. The stimulus plans and other measures implemented by the Chinese government may not avert an economic downturn amid a severe and prolonged global economic recession. Any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our customers may reduce or delay spending with us, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing customers. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic and business matters. The overall effect of legislation since 1979 has been a significant enhancement of the protections afforded to various forms of foreign-invested enterprises in mainland China. Our PRC subsidiaries are wholly foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated in mainland China and wholly owned by foreign investors. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in mainland China in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The PRC government may discontinue the preferential tax treatments or the government financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new enterprise income tax law, or the New EIT Law, as supplemented by various detailed implementation guidance, which became effective as of January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, a preferential tax rate of 15% is applicable to enterprises that qualify as “high and new technology enterprises”, a status reassessed every three years. In addition, an enterprise is entitled to a 10% income tax rate for the year in which it is recognized as a “national key software enterprise”, a status reassessed every year. Shengqu, Shanda Computer, Shanda Networking, Bianfeng, Shanghai Shulong, Chengdu Aurora, Shanghai Holdfast Online Information Technology Co., Ltd., Chengdu Jisheng Technology Co., Ltd., or Chengdu Jisheng, were recognized as “high and new technology enterprises” in 2008 and are entitled to a 15% preferential income tax rate for the three-year period ending December 31, 2010. Lansha and Jinyou were also recognized as “high and new technology enterprises” in 2010 and were subject to a preferential tax rate of 15% in 2010. In addition, Shengqu also qualified as a national key software enterprise in 2008 and 2009, on December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Accordingly, Shengqu was subject to a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2008 and 2009. Shengqu lost its national key software enterprise status in 2010 and therefore was subject to the 15.0% income tax rate in 2010. Shanda Computer qualified as a national key software enterprise in 2010 and was subject to a preferential income tax rate of 10% in 2010. In April 2010, Shengji, as a software enterprise, has been granted a two-year income tax exemption followed by a three-year 50% tax reduction on its taxable income, which is effective retroactively from January 1, 2009. In May 2010, Chengdu Aurora also qualified as a “software development enterprise” and was granted a three year 50% tax reduction on its taxable income, which is effective retroactively from January 1, 2009. Accordingly, Shengji was subject to a preferential income tax rate of 0% in 2009 and 2010, and Chengdu Aurora was subject to a 12.5% preferential income tax rate in 2009 and 2010 respectively. 49 Table of Contents However, we cannot assure you that these enterprises will be able to maintain their status as “high and new technology enterprises” and/or “national key software enterprises.” If any of these enterprises that qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” or a “national key software enterprise” fails to continue to qualify for such status, our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. In 2008, 2009, and 2010, we received in aggregate government financial incentives of RMB62.3 million, RMB221.9 million and RMB272.9million (US$41.4 million), respectively, which were calculated with reference to taxable revenue and taxable income. To be eligible for the government financial incentives, we are required to continue to meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria and to be further subject to the discretion of the municipal governments. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2008, our income before tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, non-controlling interests and redeemable preferred shares issued by a subsidiary would have been RMB1,460.1 million, a decrease of 4.1% from the reported amount. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2009, our income before tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, non-controlling interests and redeemable preferred shares issued by a subsidiary would have been RMB2,039.0 million, a decrease of 9.8% from the reported amount. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2010, our income before income tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, non-controlling interests and redeemable preferred shares issued by a subsidiary would have been RMB878.3 million (US$133.1 million), a decrease of 23.7% from the reported amount. As the receipt of these government financial incentives is subject to periodic time lags and inconsistent municipal government practice on payment times, for so long as we continue to receive these government financial incentives, our net income in a particular quarter may be higher or lower relative to other quarters based on the potentially uneven receipt by us of these government financial incentives in addition to any business or operating related factors we may otherwise experience. Moreover, the central government or municipal governments could determine at any time to eliminate or reduce these government financial incentives, generally with prospective effect. We cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives in the future. The discontinuation or reduction of these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to PRC income tax on our worldwide income if we were considered a PRC “resident enterprise” under the New EIT Law. Under the New EIT Law, and the Implementation Regulations to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law Implementation Regulations, both effective from January 1, 2008, enterprises established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC are considered a “resident enterprise” and will be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. The New EIT Law Implementation Regulations define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the production, operation, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in the PRC. Although Circular 82 applies only to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC group companies and not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals or foreign enterprises. A substantial majority of our senior management team is located in China. If we were considered to be a PRC “resident enterprise,” we would be subject to a PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide income. For additional details on the preferential tax status, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation — PRC Enterprise Income Tax” and “Item 10D. Exchange Controls.” 50 Table of Contents Although we are a Cayman Islands company and wholly own subsidiaries incorporated in Hong Kong, the PRC tax authorities may regard the main purpose of these Hong Kong entities as obtaining a lower withholding tax rate of 5%. As a result, the PRC tax authorities could levy a higher withholding tax rate to dividends received by our wholly owned subsidiaries incorporated in Hong Kong from our PRC subsidiaries. “Our PRC subsidiaries” refers to Shanda Computer, Shengting, Zhejiang Bianfeng, Grandpro, Beijing Hurray! Times Technology, the Ku6 PRC Subsidiaries and the SDG PRC subsidiaries. In addition, a substantial majority of the members of our management team are located in China. Under current PRC laws and regulations, it is also uncertain whether we would be deemed PRC tax resident enterprises under the New EIT Law. If we are deemed PRC tax resident enterprises, our global income will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%. We may be required to withhold PRC income tax on the dividends we pay you (if any), and any gain you realize on the transfer of our ordinary shares and ADSs may also be subject to PRC tax if we are treated as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Pursuant to the New EIT Law, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. See “— We may be subject to PRC income tax on our worldwide income if we were considered a PRC ‘resident enterprise’ under the New EIT Law.” If we are so treated by the PRC tax authorities, we may be obligated to withhold PRC income tax on payments of dividends on our shares and ADSs to investors that are non-resident enterprises of the PRC because the dividends payable on our ordinary shares and ADSs may be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC. The withholding tax rate would generally be 10% on dividends paid to non-resident enterprises. In addition, any gain realized by investors who are non-resident enterprises of the PRC from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be regarded as being derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to a 10% PRC tax. See “Item 10E. Taxation — People’s Republic of China Taxation.” Moreover, under the PRC Individual Income Tax Law, or IITL, if we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise, non-resident individual investors would be subject to PRC individual income tax at a rate of 20% on dividends paid to such investors and any capital gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and ADSs if such dividends and gains are deemed income derived from sources within the PRC. A non-resident individual is an individual who has no domicile in the PRC and does not stay within the PRC or has stayed within the PRC for less than one year. Pursuant to the IITL and its implementation rules, for purposes of the PRC capital gains tax, the taxable income will be based on the total income obtained from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs minus all the costs and expenses that are permitted under PRC tax laws to be deducted from the income. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise and dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares and ADSs and the gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and ADSs were considered income derived from sources within the PRC by relevant PRC tax authorities, such dividends and gains earned by non-resident individuals would also be subject to PRC tax at a rate of 20% except in the case of individuals that qualify for a lower rate under a tax treaty. Under the PRC-U.S. tax treaty, a 10% rate will apply to dividends provided certain conditions are met. The foregoing PRC tax may reduce your investment return on our ordinary shares and ADSs and may also affect the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. The New EIT Law may affect the availability of preferential tax rates under the special tax arrangement between Hong Kong and mainland China on dividends and interest to be paid by our PRC subsidiary. Under the applicable PRC tax laws in effect before January 1, 2008, dividend payments and interest payments to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises in China were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Under the New EIT Law, starting from 2008, dividends paid by a PRC foreign-invested enterprise to its immediate parent company outside China are subject to PRC withholding tax at rate of 10%, unless there are applicable treaties that reduce such rate. Under a special arrangement between China and Hong Kong, such dividend withholding tax rate is reduced to 5% and interest withholding rate is reduced to 7% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% equity interest in the PRC company distributing the dividends or paying the interest. In October 2009, the SAT further issued the Circular on How to Interpret and Recognize the “beneficial owner” in Tax Agreements, or Circular 601, and certain other related rules. According to Circular 601, non-resident enterprises that cannot provide valid supporting documents as “beneficial owners” may not be approved to enjoy tax treaty benefits. “Beneficial owners” are individuals, enterprises or other organizations that are normally engaged in substantive operations. These rules also set forth certain adverse factors to the recognition of a “beneficial owner.” Specifically, they expressly exclude a “conduit company,” or any company established for the purposes of avoiding or reducing tax obligations or transferring or accumulating profits and not engaged in actual operations such as manufacturing, sales or management, from being a “beneficial owner.” As a result, although our PRC subsidiaries are currently wholly owned by the respective Hong Kong subsidiaries, we may not be able to enjoy the applicable preferential withholding tax rate under the special tax arrangement and therefore be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10% with respect to dividends and interest to be paid by our PRC subsidiaries to our respective Hong Kong subsidiaries. 51 Table of Contents There is a significant risk that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ending December 31, 2010 and may currently be a PFIC. There is a significant risk that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ending December 31, 2010 and may currently be a PFIC. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is subject to uncertainty because it is not clear how the VIE agreements between the PRC operating companies and us will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules, and because of the uncertainty with respect to the valuation of our assets as well as the uncertain characterization of our assets and income, including goodwill, for purposes of the PFIC rules. If we are or were to become a PFIC, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to additional reporting requirements. PFIC classification is tested annually, and our classification will therefore depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our shares and ADSs, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for 2010 or that we will not be a PFIC for 2011 or any future taxable year. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see the section entitled “Item 10E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Most of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees to foreign game licensors, and our PRC operating companies may purchase foreign exchange for payment of license fees to foreign game licensors without the approval of SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are subject to limitations and require registration with or approval by the relevant PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of foreign currency loans, those loans cannot exceed certain statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions, those capital contributions must be approved by the MOFCOM. Our ability to use the U.S. dollar proceeds of the sale of our equity or debt to finance our business activities conducted through our PRC subsidiaries will depend on our ability to obtain these governmental registrations or approvals. In addition, because of the regulatory issues related to foreign currency loans to, and foreign investment in, domestic PRC enterprises, we may not be able to finance our PRC operating companies’ operations by loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these governmental registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. 52 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Most of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect our costs and operating margins. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in Renminbi terms. Where our operations conducted in Renminbi are reported in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations could result in changes in reported results which do not reflect changes in the underlying operations. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a more than 21% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as of March 31, 2011. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. On the other hand, as most of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, any potential future devaluation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations. Moreover, we have material monetary assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, which mainly consist of our bank deposits and the convertible notes. The fluctuation of foreign exchange rate affects the value of these monetary assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Generally, an appreciation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange loss for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange gain for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. On the contrary, a devaluation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange gain for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange loss for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge all or part of our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Conversely, an increase in the value of the Renminbi could increase our reported earnings in U.S. dollar terms without a fundamental change in our business or operating performance. Since our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, our valuation could be materially and adversely affected by the devaluation of the Renminbi if U.S. investors analyze our value based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation in China and measures to contain inflation could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in our costs, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets, and restrictions on state bank lending. Such austerity measures can lead to a slowing of economic growth. A slowdown in the PRC economy could also materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Notice 78. Under Notice 78, PRC individuals who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted shares or stock options pursuant to our share incentive plan are subject to Notice 78 because we are an overseas listed company. However, in practice, there exist significant uncertainties with regard to the interpretation and implementation of Notice 78. We are committed to complying with the requirements of Notice 78. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our Chinese employees will be able to complete, qualify under, or obtain any registration required by Notice 78. In particular, if we and/or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Notice 78, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government authorities, as a result of which our business operations and employee option plans could be materially and adversely affected. 53 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs As a result of Premium Lead Company Limited’s ownership of our ordinary shares, it will effectively control the outcome of shareholder actions in our company and may take actions that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of our ADSs. As of December 31, 2010, Premium Lead Company Limited, or Premium Lead, whose beneficial owner is Tianqiao Chen, our chairman and chief executive officer, owned approximately 53.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, Premium Lead has and is expected to maintain significant control over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of any member of our board of directors, mergers, consolidations and other business combinations, changes to our memorandum and articles of association, the number of shares available for issuance under equity incentive plans and the issuance of significant amounts of our ordinary shares in private placements. Premium Lead could have sufficient voting rights to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval even if it should, at some point in the future, hold considerably less than a majority of the combined total of our outstanding ordinary shares. Premium Lead’s voting power may prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which you as a holder of our ADSs might otherwise receive a premium for your securities over the then-current market price. Similarly, Premium Lead may approve a merger or consolidation of our company which may result in you receiving a stake (either in the form of shares, debt obligations or other securities) in the surviving or new consolidated company which may not operate our current business model and dissenter rights may not be available to you in such an event. The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since we completed our initial public offering in May 2004, the sale prices of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from US$10.58 to US$63.66 per ADS and the last reported sale price on June 28, 2011 was US$38.59. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including among others: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding intellectual property rights litigation; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our products; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. 54 Table of Contents The price of our ADSs also could be affected by possible sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs by investors who view our 2% convertible senior notes due 2011, or the convertible notes, as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage activity involving our ordinary shares and ADSs that we believe has developed as a result of the issuance of the convertible notes. Conversion of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Under certain circumstances, upon conversion of the convertible notes, we have the right to deliver our ordinary shares or ADSs representing such ordinary shares, in lieu of cash. If we decide to deliver ordinary shares or ADSs representing such ordinary shares, the ownership interests of existing holders of ADSs may be diluted. Any sales in the public market of our ADSs issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ADSs. In addition, the anticipated conversion of the notes into any ordinary shares or ADSs representing such ordinary shares could depress the price of our ADSs. We may be unable to raise the funds to pay interest on the convertible notes or to purchase the convertible notes on the purchase dates or upon a fundamental change. The convertible notes bear interest at an annual rate of 2.0%, payable semiannually, and we in certain circumstances are obligated to pay additional interest. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the convertible notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their convertible notes. In addition, upon conversion of the convertible notes, we will pay the principal amount in cash. We used all of the net proceeds from the sale of the convertible notes, together with cash on hand, to repurchase US$175.0 million worth of our ADSs pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase program. We may not have sufficient funds for any required repurchase of the convertible notes or required payment of principal or interest, and we may have to obtain financing to make payments under the convertible notes. If we fail to pay interest or principal on the convertible notes or repurchase the convertible notes when required, we will be in default under the indenture governing the convertible notes. Provisions of the convertible notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a “fundamental change,” holders of the convertible notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of US$1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion or provide for conversion into the acquirer’s capital stock in the event of certain fundamental changes. As a foreign private issuer with ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow its home country practice must submit to the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each NASDAQ requirement with which it does not comply followed by a description of its applicable home country practice. As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands with ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we intend to follow our home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements that mandate that: • our board of directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors; • our directors be selected or nominated by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors; 55 Table of Contents • our board adopt a formal written charter or board resolution addressing the director nominations process and such related matters as may be required under the U.S. federal securities laws; and • the compensation of our executive officers be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2011 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a public company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state due to the lack of reciprocal treaty in the Cayman Islands or the PRC providing statutory recognition of judgments obtained in the United States. The PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons who reside outside the United States predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 56 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, the following: • provisions that restrict the ability of our shareholders to call meetings and to propose special matters for consideration at shareholder meetings; and • provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. A holder of our ADSs may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast, or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer, or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 57 Table of Contents Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 