Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. The fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We will continue to compete with bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically. In addition, our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: • other multi-dealer trading companies; • market data and information vendors; • securities and futures exchanges; • inter-dealer brokerage firms; • electronic communications networks; • technology, software, information and media or other companies that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers or institutional investors; and • other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the securities business. Many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities. In addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. Any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. Current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost. Others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. We expect that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each product or service we offer. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any potential growth can be assured. Even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading platform. Our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platform by these clients. Individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platform. Our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. We currently derive approximately half of our revenues from secondary trading in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds. The percentage of our commissions from such trading declined from 57.3% in 2006 to 50.0% in 2008. Our long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. 22 Table of Contents Because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We expect to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services industry. These risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to, our ability to: • attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on a cost-effective basis; • expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and service offerings to our clients; • respond effectively to competitive pressures; • diversify our sources of revenues; • maintain adequate control of our expenses; • operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website, software, communications and other systems; • manage growth in personnel and operations; • increase awareness of our brand or market positioning; • expand our sales and marketing programs; and • respond to regulatory changes or demands. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Further decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platform would further harm our business and profitability. We have experienced significant decreases in overall trading volume over the past 18 months, and may continue to experience decreases in trading volume in the future. Declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated from related activities. Likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. During recent periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants decreased dramatically as institutional investors sought to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. In addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. A further decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate. We anticipate that from time to time we will introduce new fee plans for the U.S. high-grade corporate bond, Eurobond and other market segments in which we operate. Any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. We cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. Furthermore, resistance to the new fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients or a reduction in the number of dealers participating on our platform could have an adverse impact on our distribution fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties to certain transactions executed between our clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to back bond trades. In June 2006, we began executing riskless principal bond transactions between our broker-dealer clients on the DealerAxess® platform, and during 2008 we extended our riskless principal role to include the execution of certain bond transactions between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. We (through our subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation) act as an intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in matching back-to-back trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing organization. Settlement typically occurs within one to three trading days after the trade date. Cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. We are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our platform, whether on the DealerAxess® platform or otherwise. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. Where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. The policies and procedures we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. There can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, three of which were also our stockholders as of January 1, 2008, who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional investors. We rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. The contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. Our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. Some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks which compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. These competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers’ primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. Any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders. We have historically earned a substantial portion of our commissions from broker-dealer clients that were our stockholders. For the year ended December 31, 2008, $12.5 million or 17.0% of our commissions, for the year ended December 31, 2007, $31.4 million or 39.2% of our commissions, and for the year ended December 31, 2006, $35.6 million or 49.9% of our commissions, were generated by these stockholder broker-dealer clients. None of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform. Reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to the reduction in the level of their equity ownership may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our electronic trading platform and other services, which could negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional investor clients. The loss of, or a significant reduction of, participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents If we experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice. Due to the continuing global credit crisis, the unpredictability of our industry and our evolving business model, we have and may continue to experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. We base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth. Our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to other factors, including: • our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; • our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and institutional investor clients; • changes in our pricing policies; • the introduction of new features on our electronic trading platform; • the effectiveness of our sales force; • new product and service introductions by our competitors; • fluctuations in overall market trading volume; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; • general economic conditions in our geographic markets; • additional investment in our services or operations; and • regulatory compliance costs. As a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our stock price. We may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive position. Our business environment is characterized by rapid technological change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands and evolving industry standards. Our future will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new versions of, our electronic trading platform. The success of new features and versions depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the feature or version. In addition, the market for our electronic trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling to provide. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies and develop new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. Our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform to enter new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in other markets. Even if we do adapt our software and technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. We cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. If these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, 25 Table of Contents which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. Furthermore, these efforts may divert management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. Rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. The electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. If new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to: • enhance our existing products and services; • develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective clients; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Developing our electronic trading platform and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platform, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. For example, our electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients’ or institutional investor clients’ perspective and in relation to the inquiry functionality of our competitors’ systems. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our competitors. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. We depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. We rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. If we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our corporate bond reference database. Disruptions in the services provided by that third party to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. Other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. Any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. We cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. 26 Table of Contents We license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. We also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. Continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. Adverse changes in any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our service providers. These contracts usually have multi-year terms. However, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. Further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and contracts. Our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. In order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. If our electronic trading platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. The expansion of our electronic trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. These resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. We cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. Furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. The inability of our electronic trading platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures. Our electronic trading platform, computer and communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other things: • irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility; • power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or software errors; • human error; • computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting potential lapses in security), both internal and external; • natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of God; • acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and • loss of support services from third parties, including those to whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure critical to our business. 27 Table of Contents In the event that any of our systems, or those of our third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any one or more of the following to occur: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; • slower response times or delays in our clients’ trade execution; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; • financial losses and liabilities to clients; • litigation or other claims against us, including formal complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and • regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name and lead our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or cease their use of our electronic trading platform. In these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. Similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. We also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to properly respond to system problems. We internally support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including those underlying our electronic trading platform. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading platform. Our electronic trading platform involves the storage and transmission of our clients’ proprietary information. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platform. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. This could adversely affect our ability to compete. Intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical 28 Table of Contents measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. We have filed six patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes from competition. Additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. For instance, a third party might reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or replicate our products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. In the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; • cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our products or services, which may not be feasible; • result in significant monetary liability; • divert management’s attention and resources; and • require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our electronic trading platform or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents If we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: • we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision may change; • we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing electronic trading platform, products and services; • we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; • there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those of the acquired company; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; • we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; • an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges as was the case in 2008 with the write-down of certain TWS-related intangible assets. We may be limited in our use of our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2008, we had U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $103.3 million that will begin to expire in 2019. A net operating loss carryforward enables a company to apply net operating losses incurred during a current period against future periods’ profits in order to reduce tax liability in those future periods. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code provides that when a company undergoes an “ownership change,” that company’s use of its net operating losses is limited annually in each subsequent year. An “ownership change” occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five percent or more of the value of a company’s stock as compared to that shareholder’s lowest percentage ownership during the preceding three-year period exceeds 50 percentage points. For purposes of this rule, certain shareholders who own less than five percent of a company’s stock are aggregated and treated as a single five-percent shareholder. In 2000 and 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and MarketAxess Corporation had an “ownership change.” Net operating loss carryforwards of $37.6 million existed as of the date of ownership change. However, only $5.2 million 30 Table of Contents are deemed utilizable and recognized in the net operating loss carryforward figure. MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Greenline Financial Technologies, Inc. experienced ownership changes in 2007 and 2008, respectively. We do not believe that these ownership changes significantly impact our ability to utilize existing or acquired net operating loss carryforwards. The issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders could result in an additional “ownership change.” For, example, we may issue a substantial number of shares of our stock in connection with offerings, acquisitions and other transactions in the future and we could repurchase a significant number of shares in connection with a stock repurchase program, although no assurance can be given that any such offering, acquisition, other transaction or repurchase program will be undertaken. In addition, the exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock. The extent of the actual future use of our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards is subject to inherent uncertainty because it depends on the amount of otherwise taxable income we may earn. We cannot give any assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards before they would otherwise expire. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Richard M. McVey, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. The terms of Mr. McVey’s employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity options, performance shares and restricted stock. Any loss or interruption of Mr. McVey’s services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. Because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. We strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. Our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians, product managers and senior sales executives. The market for qualified personnel continues to be competitive despite overall economic conditions, as electronic commerce has experienced growth. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and are longer established in the marketplace. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet, high-technology and financial services industries, job candidates often consider the total compensation package offered, including the value of the stock- based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. Significant volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. The expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may require to join our company. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Termination of employees may result in additional costs We are currently involved in an arbitration case filed by a former employee. We believe that the claims are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them. However, an adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Regardless of the outcome of this case, we may incur significant expense and management time dealing with these and other such claims. In addition, we have paid severance amounts in connection with the involuntary termination of employees in the past and may offer severance packages in connection with future reductions in force, if any. Our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. The financial industry is extensively regulated by many governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC and FINRA. As a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. These regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. Most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly regulated, including: • the way we deal with our clients; • our capital requirements; • our financial and regulatory reporting practices; • required record-keeping and record retention procedures; • the licensing of our employees; and • the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. We cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in FINRA and registration as a broker-dealer. We have two major operating subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited. MarketAxess Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited are subject to U.S. and U.K. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit repayment of borrowings from the Company or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to the Company or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary’s principal regulator. In addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and other events in the financial industry over the past 18 months, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and regulatory action to increase government oversight of the financial services industry. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development of affected markets to become impractical. In addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and operations. Our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to regulation as an alternative trading system under Regulation ATS. A determination by the SEC to treat our trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to Regulation ATS would subject us to additional reporting obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our business, many of which could be material. Our anonymous dealer-to-dealer trading service, DealerAxess®, is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to Regulation ATS. As an enterprise founded and historically controlled by broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. In November 2000, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the U.S. Department of Justice in 32 Table of Contents connection with the Antitrust Division’s investigation of electronic bond and other consortia trading systems. After compliance with all information requests, we received notice from the U.S. Department of Justice in 2004 that the investigation had been officially closed. As the use of our electronic trading platform grows and represents a greater share of the trading volume of fixed-income securities, the risk that other regulatory investigations could commence in the future increases. Additionally, the involvement of individuals affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer clients on our Board of Directors and as stockholders may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. At any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position. The activities and consequences described above may result in significant distractions to our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the United States; however, we may face special economic and regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet. We operate an electronic trading platform in Europe and we plan to further expand our operations throughout Europe and other regions. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. These risks include: • less developed technological infrastructures and generally higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading platform; • difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the operation of our business; • the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • fluctuations in exchange rates; • reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights; • seasonal reductions in business activity; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. Our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. Although we believe that our available cash resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: • support more rapid growth of our business; • develop new or enhanced services and products; • fund operating losses; • respond to competitive pressures; 33 Table of Contents • acquire complementary companies or technologies; • enter into strategic alliances; • increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our operations; or • respond to unanticipated capital requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in light of the recent economic turmoil which has, among other consequences, led to a depression in stock prices and the tightening of available credit. Our existing investors, including our broker-dealer clients and their affiliates, have no obligation to make further investments in us, and we do not anticipate that they will do so. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and NASDAQ rules promulgated in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and regulations have imposed legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may in the future place undue strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our Board of Directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. NASDAQ rules also require that a majority of our Board of Directors and all of the members of certain sub-committees of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors. We cannot assure you that our Board of Directors will continue to include a majority of independent directors to comply with the requirements of these rules. We are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. We and our clients may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and services provided by us. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry If the use of electronic trading platforms does not continue to increase, we will not be able to achieve our business objectives. The success of our business plan depends in part on our ability to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of fixed-income products. Historically, fixed-income securities markets operated through telephone 34 Table of Contents communications between institutional investors and broker-dealers. The utilization of our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic means of trading securities. We cannot assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities will continue. Economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • economic and political conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading; • consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers; • actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostilities; • concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels; • the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; • the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency exchange rates; and • legislative and regulatory changes. Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity and prices in the securities markets generally. Our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the U.S. and global financial markets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by volatility in the markets in general. The market price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: • the other risk factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K; • prevailing interest rates; • the market for similar securities; • additional issuances of common stock; • general economic conditions; and • our financial condition, performance and prospects, including our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general, including the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have experienced and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. 35 Table of Contents We do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on the sale of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. These analysts work independently of us. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our stockholders rights plan, amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholders rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill.” This plan entitles existing stockholders to rights, including the right to purchase shares of common stock, in the event of an acquisition of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. Our stockholders rights plan could prevent stockholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change of control of us by delaying or preventing a change of control. In addition, provisions of our charter documents and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings; • allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval; and • set forth procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders’ meetings. Provisions of Delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. In addition, we have severance agreements with several employees and a change of control severance plan that could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. Either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 