D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Business If we are unable to consistently develop, acquire, co-develop, or license additional successful online games, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In order to maintain our long-term profitability and operational success, we must continue to develop, acquire, co-develop or license new online games that are attractive to our users to replace our existing online games as they reach the end of their commercial lifespan. Our ability to internally develop successful online games will depend on our ability to anticipate changing consumer tastes and preferences, to adopt new technologies, to attract, retain and motivate talented online game developers and to effectively execute online game development plans. In-house online game development requires a substantial initial investment prior to commercial launch of a game as well as a significant commitment of future resources to produce upgrades and expansion packs. We have acquired several online game development and operating companies to expand our online game portfolio. For example, in June 2007, we acquired Chengdu Aurora Technology Development Co., Ltd, or Aurora, a leading developer and operator of massively multiplayer online role-playing games, or MMORPGs, including Fengyun Online, which is a 3D MMORPG. However, our ability to expand our online game offering through future acquisitions will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition targets at reasonable terms, our ability to compete effectively to attract these targets, the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions, and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. Future acquisitions could also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Such transactions and the subsequent integration processes would require significant attention from our management. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered with respect to the acquisition or in the process of integration could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Co-development with key players in the game industry form part of our strategy to expanding our online game portfolio. For example, in July 2007, we entered into a co-development agreement with THQ Inc. in respect to Company of Heroes Online. However, our ability to grow our online game portfolio through co-development will depend on the availability of suitable game titles and co-development partners at reasonable terms, our ability to compete effectively to attract these partners, and our ability to complete the co-development on planned schedules. 4 Table of Contents Our ability to license successful online games will depend on our ability to identify games that will appeal to our users, the availability of such games at acceptable costs, our ability to compete effectively to attract the licensors of such games, and our ability to obtain government approvals required for the licensing and operation of such games. It is, however, difficult at the testing phase to determine which online games will appeal to our users. In addition, many of the games that are licensed by overseas developers were not designed specifically for China’s online game market, further complicating the task of identifying or implementing games that will appeal to our users. Moreover, due to increased competition among online game operators in China, upfront license fees for licensed games have increased and most licensors are demanding guaranteed minimum royalty payments. We cannot be certain that the games we license from third parties, acquire through investment, co-develop with a third party or internally develop will be attractive to users, will be viewed by the regulatory authorities as complying with content restrictions, will be launched as scheduled or will be able to compete with games operated by our competitors. Furthermore, we may be unable to fully recover the costs associated with developing in-house, acquiring, co-developing, or licensing games if the games are not popular among our users. If we are not able to consistently license, acquire, co-develop, or develop online games with continuing appeal to users, our future profitability and growth prospects will decline. If we are unable to maintain stable relationships with the overseas licensors of our online games, we may experience difficulties in the continued operation of our existing licensed games, the extension of existing licenses and the granting of licenses for new games. We need to maintain stable working relationships with our overseas licensors in order to ensure the continued smooth operation of our licensed online games and our continued access to new online game licenses. In 2007, we derived approximately 67.2% of our net revenues from online games that were licensed from third parties. We are dependent upon our licensors for the provision of technical support necessary for the operation of the licensed games as well as expansion packs and upgrades that help to sustain interest in a game among online users. In addition, certain marketing activities often require the consent of our licensors. Moreover, certain of our licenses may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as our material breach of the license. If a licensed game is successful during its initial term of operation, we may be required to negotiate with our licensors to extend that term of operation. For example, one of our successful casual games, BNB, is licensed from a third party pursuant to a license agreement which will expire in September 2008. We may not be able to renew this license agreement with the licensor on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to maintain stable working relationships with our overseas licensors also influences our ability to license new online games developed by the same or other licensors. If we are unable to maintain stable relationships with our overseas licensors, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks associated with the licensing of our games overseas, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business internationally. As of the date of this report, we have licensed Crazy Kart, Super Star, Magical Land, Fengyun Online and Might and Hero to game operators in 5, 2, 1, 1 and 1 countries or regions, respectively. We plan to further license our existing and new games in more countries and regions. The offering of our games in the international markets exposes us to a number of risks, including: • difficulties in identifying and maintaining good relationships with licensees who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively distribute and operate our games in, overseas markets; • difficulties in developing games and expansion packs catering to overseas markets and in renewing our license agreements with licensees upon their expiration; • difficulties in maintaining the reputation of our company and our games, given that our games are operated by licensees in the overseas markets pursuant to their own standards; • difficulties and costs in protecting our intellectual property rights overseas; • difficulties and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our games, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • interruptions in cross-border Internet connections or other system failures. For example, South Korea requires online game companies to obtain a ratings classification for online games and implement procedures to restrict the distribution of online games to minors. As a result, our international expansion may also be adversely 5 Table of Contents affected by public opinion or government policies overseas. Our inability to expand our business internationally would have a material and adverse affect on our business financial conditions and results of operations. We or our licensors may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us or our licensors, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that internally developed or licensed online games and other interactive entertainment content do not and will not infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Of the twenty online games that we commercially operated as of December 31, 2007, eleven are internally developed and eight are licensed form third parties. In connection with our EZ initiative, we also cooperate with numerous service and content providers that supply interactive entertainment content, such as movies, music, news and information. We or any of our licensors may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others. For example, we were subject to litigation with respect to our operation of The World of Legend, or Woool, which is one of our in-house developed games, when Actoz Soft Co., Ltd., or Actoz, and Wemade Entertainment Co., Ltd., or Wemade, filed copyright infringement and unfair competition claims against us in the Beijing First Intermediate People’s Court. These claims were settled in February 2007. For more details about the Actoz and Wemade litigation, please see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 8 “Financial Information”. If we or our licensors are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages and be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur new or additional licensing fees if we wish to continue using the infringing content, or be forced to develop or license alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. We are substantially dependent on two online games, which accounted for approximately 75.1% of our net revenues in 2007 and which may have a finite commercial lifespan. We are dependent upon The Legend of Mir II, or Mir II, and Woool, for the majority of our net revenues. In 2007, Mir II and Woool accounted for approximately 52.7% and 22.4% of our net revenues, respectively. These and other online games may, however, have finite commercial life spans. We believe that Mir II and Woool, which we commercially launched in the fourth quarter of 2001 and the third quarter of 2003, respectively, have already entered the mature stages of their lifecycles. Revenues from Mir II sequentially decreased in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, and revenues from Woool sequentially decreased in the fourth quarter of 2005 and first quarter of 2006. While the adoption of our new Come-Stay-Pay model in November 2005 has reversed the decreasing trend in revenue, we cannot assure you that revenues will not continue to decline in the future. In order to maximize the lifespan of Mir II and Woool, we work with our licensors and rely upon in-house efforts to continuously enhance, expand and upgrade Mir II and Woool to include new features. If we fail to do so, revenue generated by Mir II and Woool may decline. Nonetheless, we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from Mir II and Woool through at least 2008. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected by any occurrence that leads to a continued downward trend in revenue generated by Mir II and Woool, including but not limited to: • any reduction in purchases of in-game items or value-added services by Mir II or Woool users or any decrease in the popularity of either game in the China market due to intensifying competition or other factors; • loss of our rights to operate either of these games due to a termination of necessary licenses or other reasons; • failure to make improvements, updates or enhancements to Mir II or Woool in a timely manner; or • any lasting or prolonged server interruption due to network failures or other factors or any other adverse developments specific to Mir II or Woool. Negative publicity in China regarding online games could lead to additional government regulations that may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly inspired by or in connection with online games. In addition, incidences of excessive online game playing and allegations that online games distract students and interfere with their education have also been reported in the media. This negative publicity regarding the online game industry has led to several regulatory initiatives and could lead to additional regulation in the future. For example, in July 2005, the Ministry of Culture, or the MOC, and the Ministry of 6 Table of Contents Information Industry, or the MII, jointly issued an opinion which requires online game operators to develop systems and softwares for identity certification, to implement anti-addiction modifications to game rules and to restrict players under eighteen years of age from playing certain games. In addition, in August 2005, the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, proposed an online game anti-addiction system that would have reduced and eliminated experience points that a user can accumulate after three and five hours of consecutive playing, respectively. On April 5, 2007, the GAPP, Ministry of Education, Chinese Communist Party Central Committee Office of Social Ethics, Ministry of Public Security, the MII, Central Committee of Chinese Communist Youth League, All-China Women’s Federation and China Working Committee for Future Generations issued The Circular on Implementation of Online Game Anti-addiction System for Protecting Physical and Mental Well-being of Minors, or the April 5 Circular. The April 5 Circular has two annexes, Annex I: Online Game Anti-addiction System Development Standard and Annex II: Real Identity Verification Procedure for Online Game Anti-addiction System. According to the April 5 Circular and its annexes, online game players are required to register with their real names and identity card numbers and all game operators are required to develop an anti-addiction system to curb the potential addiction of players under the age of eighteen, to online games. Violation of the April 5 Circular may incur regulatory sanctions, including monetary fines, forced termination of online game operations and revocation of our licenses needed for operations. The implementation of the anti-addiction system and other regulations which may be mandated in response to negative publicity could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition which could reduce our market share and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The online game market in China is increasingly competitive. Our results of operations to date may be a result, in part, of a first-mover advantage which may not continue to be available to us. A significant number of competitors have entered the online game business in China. We expect more companies to enter the market and we expect a wider range of online games to be introduced to the China market. Competition from other online game operators, both based in China as well as overseas, is likely to increase in the future. Other online game operators or developers, such as China-based Netease, The9, Giant Interactive, Perfect World, Kingsoft, NetDragon and 9you as well as overseas-based Electronic Arts, NCsoft and Nexon, are current, or potential future, competitors. As the online game industry in China is relatively new and constantly evolving, our current or future competitors may compete more successfully as the industry matures. In particular, any of these competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us. These products and services may weaken the market strength of our brand name and achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Furthermore, any of our current or future competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with, larger, well-established and well-financed companies and therefore obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and game licensing and development resources than we have. In addition, increased competition in the online game industry in China could make it difficult for us to retain existing users and attract new users. Moreover, game consoles that have achieved significant successes in markets other than China have not yet formally entered the market in China due to regulatory and other concerns. If these game consoles, many of which are strengthening their online game features, formally enter the market in China, we would face additional competition. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as television and movies. If we are unable to compete effectively in China’s online game market as well as China’s entertainment market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies, including our 3C strategy, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy is based on our 3C strategy which focuses on the development of our content, community and commerce. As of December 31, 2007, our primary content offering was our online games. Our ability to successfully implement our 3C strategy will depend upon our success in sourcing additional new content, including additional new online games and original online literature, developing our integrated platform for our community of users and attracting other Internet content providers, or ICPs, to use our e-commerce system. Many ICPs in China may, nonetheless, regard our e-commerce infrastructure service as undesirable or the fee we charge for such service as unreasonable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract third parties to use our e-commerce service on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, the execution of the 3C strategy requires a significant amount of managerial time and energy. If we are unable to successfully implement our 3C growth strategies, our revenue and profitability may not grow as we expect, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face the risks of uncertainties regarding the growth of the online game industry and market acceptance of our online games and in-game items. 7 Table of Contents The online game industry, from which we derive most of our revenues, is a relatively new and evolving industry and concept. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the growth of personal computer, Internet and broadband users and penetration in China and other markets in which we offer our games, and the rate of any such growth; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions that impact the level of discretionary consumer spending; • the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games of console systems, such as those made by Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China and other countries in which we market our games; • changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; • the popularity and price of new online games and in-game items that we and our competitors launch and distribute; and • our ability to timely upgrade and improve our existing games to extend their life spans and to maintain their competitive positions in the online game market. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, MMORPGs are popular in China. However, there is no assurance that MMORPGs will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPGs that we operate, will likely adversely affect our business and prospects. We must be able to track and respond to these changes in consumer preferences in a timely and effective manner. Furthermore, given that the item-based revenue model relies on in-game purchases, we must be able to track and respond quickly to changes in game preferences and consumer spending trends. The change to the revenue model for our leading MMORPGs may reduce the amount of revenue that otherwise would have been generated by these games, thereby negatively affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents In late November 2005, we replaced the pay-to-play revenue model with a “Come-Stay-Pay,” or CSP, revenue model for Mir II, Woool and Magical Land, which are three of our leading MMORPGs. We have since adopted this CSP revenue model for all of our casual games and most of our MMORPGs. Under the CSP revenue model, our users are able to play the basic functions of these games for free and may choose to purchase in-game value-added services, including certain in-game items and premium features, which enhance the player’s game experience. We have licensed or co-developed a number of new games, including but not limited to Atrix, Chang Chun Online, Dragon Nest, Free Jack, Aion, Company of Heroes Online, Dead or Alive Online and Lazeska, most of which will be operated under the CSP revenue model. In 2007, net revenue generated from games operated under the CSP revenue model accounted for 96.1% of our net revenue. Although we believe this new revenue model has initially shown promising results and will benefit our company in the long run, we cannot assure that it will ultimately be successful, or that it will not have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any material reduction in revenue would have a material and adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with our pursuit of growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. In recent years we have pursued, and in the future we may continue to pursue, growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. We acquired or invested in eight businesses in 2004 and 2005 with a total value of US$421.0 million. In July 2004, we acquired Hangzhou Bianfeng Software Co., Ltd., or Hangzhou Bianfeng, at a total purchase price of US$20.0 million. In May 2005, we completed the acquisition of Shanghai Haofang Online Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Haofang, at a total purchase price of US$56.0 million. In February 2005, we completed our purchase of an approximately 19.5% stake in SINA Corp., or SINA, which is an online media company and value-added service provider in China, at a total purchase price of US$227.6 million. In February 2005, we also completed the purchase of a 29% stake in Actoz, increasing our total stake as of such date to approximately 38.1%, at a total purchase price at US$106.1 million. In 2006 and 2007, we purchased an additional 12.0% of the shares of Actoz on the open market and increased our total stake to approximately 50.1% as of December 31, 2007. In 2007, we also acquired Aurora. For more information on our acquisitions, see “History and Development of the Company” in Item 4 “Information on the Company”. These acquired or invested companies operate businesses that either complement our core online game business or represent related but new lines of business. We may, however, fail to realize the synergies contemplated at the time of executing these transactions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. For example, we completed the purchase of our equity stake in Actoz, the co-owner of Mir II, in February 2005, for a total consideration of RMB878 million (US$106.1 million), which represented an 81% premium over the open market price at the time that we entered into the purchase agreement in October 2004. In the fourth quarter of 2005, however, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of RMB521.5 million (US$64.6 million) to reflect the fair value of our 38.1% stake in Actoz. We recognized the impairment charge primarily as a result of the continued decline in royalties payable to Actoz from our operation of Mir II in China. The decision to recognize impairment was also influenced by the decline in the market price for shares of Actoz, which in the fourth quarter of 2005 was determined to be other than temporary, mainly due to the continued decline in Mir II royalties. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, the goodwill and intangibles relating to Haofang amounted to approximately RMB386.7 million (US$53.0 million). In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or when there are indicators of impairment. Haofang experienced substantial year over year decline in profit and revenue in 2007. Our management obtained an independent valuation to ascertain the fair value of Haofang as of September 30, 2007. Based on the valuation report and the assessment of the financial position and business prospects of Haofang, including the financing of Haofang by a consortium of venture capital firms which closed in the first quarter of 2008, our management concluded that there was no impairment in the carrying value of Haofang for 2007. We will continuously monitor the operation of Haofang for any impairment indicators. If Haofang’s actual cash flow for 2008 does not reflect our management’s current estimates, an impairment in this investment may be necessary for 2008. Additional risks associated with acquisitions and strategic investments include the following: • It may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our own business; • Management information and accounting systems of an acquired business must be integrated into our current systems; • Our management must devote its attention to assimilating the acquired business, which diverts attention from other business concerns; and • We may be unable to complete transactions that we initiate. 9 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to effectively integrate the operation of the acquired companies into our own and achieve the synergies contemplated at the time of entering into these transactions. If we are unable to achieve the synergies contemplated at the time of acquiring these businesses, the carrying value of the acquired companies may not be recoverable. We are required by U.S. GAAP to review the impairment of goodwill at least on an annual basis. If an impairment is determined and charged to the earnings in our financial statements, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm attested the effectiveness of our internal control and reported that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. Operation of pirate game servers and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights may adversely affect our business. We continue to face challenges from pirate game servers, which are game servers that operate unauthorized copies of our online games and permit users to play those games without purchasing pre-paid game cards from us. We have detected the operation by pirate servers of unauthorized copies of several of our leading games. In September 2002, for example, we discovered that the server-end software of Mir II was unlawfully released into the China market. This software leak enabled unauthorized third parties to set up local server networks to operate Mir II, which we believe continue to divert a significant number of users of one of our most popular online games away from us. Although we have made efforts to shutdown pirate servers across China, the intellectual property enforcement regime in China is not as robust as that of the United States, and we continue to face considerable challenges when attempting to enforce our intellectual property rights. Enforcement actions generally require cooperation from local authorities, which are not always willing to use their limited resources to enforce the intellectual property rights of national corporations against individuals or companies in their districts. In addition, detailed comparisons of software codes and litigation proceedings are often necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, which sometimes result in substantial costs. Despite our efforts to shutdown pirate servers, we believe that a significant number of pirate game servers continue to operate unauthorized copies of our online games. The continued operation of our leading games by pirate game servers, or the operation of any new games that we may introduce by pirate servers, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Undetected programming errors or defects in our games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. In addition, parties unrelated to us may develop Internet cheating programs that enable our users to acquire superior features for their game characters that they would not have otherwise. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a user. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the game experience of our users. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unexpected network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain users. We maintain a distributed server network architecture with third party service providers hosting servers in more than one hundred cities throughout China. Most of the servers handling log in, and all servers handling billing and data backup matters for us, are hosted and maintained by third party service providers in Shanghai. We do not maintain full backup for our server network hardware. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include: • any break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; and • any disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would prevent our users outside Shanghai from logging on to any of our games or other content, or playing the games, for which the servers are all located in Shanghai. In the past, our server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third party service providers. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer virus, hackings and similar events. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our games or deterioration in the quality of access to our games could reduce our users’ satisfaction. In addition, any security breach caused by hacking, which involve efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. Any failure to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Online payment systems in China are in a developmental stage and are not as widely available or acceptable to consumers in China as in the United States. As a result, we rely heavily on a multi-layer distribution and payment network composed of third party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our users. As we do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our distributors, we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If we fail to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access with respect to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Although the use of personal computers in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate for personal computers in China is much lower than in the United States. In addition, despite a decrease in the cost of Internet access in China due to a decrease in the cost of personal computers and the introduction and expansion of broadband access, the cost of personal Internet access, in contrast with Internet access through Internet cafes, remains relatively high in comparison to the average per capita income in China. In addition, the PRC government has recently promulgated regulations to curb the growth of Internet cafes. See Item 3.D. “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure—The PRC government has announced its intention, and has begun, to intensify its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently the primary venue for our users to play online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base.” The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of personal Internet access may limit the growth of our business. Furthermore, any Internet access or telecommunications fee increase could reduce the number of users that play our online games. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage our growth. Our recent growth has placed significant strain on our management, operational, financial and other resources. For example, the total number of our employees increased from 562 as of December 31, 2003 to 1,429 as of December 31, 2004, and to 2,392 as of December 31, 2005. We reduced the total number of our employees to 1,906 as of December 31, 2006 in order to streamline operations and reduce costs but as of December 31, 2007, we had 2,564 employees. In addition, certain of our directors, officers and key employees that have recently joined our company will need time to learn our business and successfully integrate themselves into 11 Table of Contents our company. In addition, as a result of our growth we need to continue to develop and expand our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of Tianqiao Chen, our founder, controlling shareholder, chairman of our board of directors and chief executive officer, in our business operations, and rely on his personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, our game and service suppliers and Shanda Networking. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on the development of our own online games, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced online game developers to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. Furthermore, we do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the government financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prior to January 1, 2008, our PRC companies were governed by the Income Tax Law of the PRC for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises and the Provisional Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprises Income Tax, or the Old EIT Law. Under the Old EIT Law, our PRC companies were generally subject to an income tax rate of 33%, subject to certain tax holidays and preferential tax rates. For example, companies incorporated in the Pudong New District of Shanghai were subject to a 15% preferential income tax rate prior to January 1, 2008. We reported an effective income tax rate of 8.6% in 2007. However, after taking into account the effects of the net gain of US$64.6 million (RMB422.4 million) from the sale of SINA, which was taxable as derived through overseas entities, our effective tax rate in 2007 would have been 11.8%. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new enterprise income tax law, or the New EIT Law, as supplemented by various detailed implementation guidance, which became effective as of January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law applies a general enterprise income tax rate of 25% on both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises. Under the New EIT Law, preferential tax treatments will be granted to enterprises that conduct business in certain encouraged sectors and to enterprises that qualify as “new and high technology enterprises”. On April 14, 2008, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation jointly issued Guokefahuo [2008] No.127, “Administrative Measures for Assessment of High and New Tech Enterprises,” or the Measures, which established new criteria for the assessment of the “new and high technology” status. Although certain of our PRC companies were recognized as “new and high technology enterprises” under the Old EIT Law, the status of these entities will be reassessed under the New EIT Law in accordance with the Measures. We cannot assure you that our PRC companies will be able to maintain their status as “new and high technology enterprises” under the New EIT Law. If any of our PRC companies that previously qualified as “new and high technology enterprises” fails to qualify under the new criteria, our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material and adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. Furthermore, pursuant to the New EIT Law, certain enterprises established prior to March 16, 2007 that are entitled to reduced tax rates in accordance with the then prevailing tax laws and regulations shall be eligible for a five-year transition period beginning from January 1, 2008 in accordance with the stipulations of the State Council. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued Notice No. [2007] 39, “Notice by the PRC State Council on the Implementation of the Grandfathering Preferential Policies under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law”, or Notice No.39. Under Notice No.39, it is uncertain as to whether the transitional tax rates would be applicable to the companies that enjoyed preferential tax rates of 15% under a local preferential tax policy such as the companies incorporated in the Pudong New District of Shanghai. If our PRC companies can not enjoy the grandfathering treatment, 12 Table of Contents our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material and adverse effect on our net income and result of operations. In addition, pursuant to the New EIT Law as supplemented by Circular Caishui [2008] No. 1 issued by Ministry of Finance of China on February 22, 2008, the dividends declared out of the profits earned after January 1, 2008 by a foreign invested enterprise to its immediate holding company outside China would be subject to withholding taxes. A favorable withholding tax rate will be applied if there is a tax treaty arrangement between Mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. Our PRC subsidiaries are considered foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, and are directly held by our subsidiary in Hong Kong. According to tax treaty between Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, dividends payable by a FIE in China to a company in Hong Kong will be subject to a 5% withholding tax. This 5% withholding tax rate would be applicable on all distributions of profits derived after January 1, 2008 by our PRC subsidiaries to their overseas intermediate holding companies. There is uncertainty in connection with the interpretation and actual implementation of the New EIT Law and its related regulations and we are still in the process of reviewing and assessing the implications of the New EIT Law and its related regulations on our PRC companies. We have determined the appropriate deferred tax balances as of December 31, 2007 based upon our best estimate of the timing differences that would be realized in the future. Any significant increase in our income tax expenses may have a material adverse effect on our profit for the year. Furthermore, any reduction or elimination of the financial subsidies or preferential tax treatments we enjoyed prior to January 1, 2008 or imposition of additional taxes on us or our PRC companies may significantly increase our income tax expenses and materially reduce our net income, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we received aggregate government financial incentives of RMB137.3 million, RMB83.9 million and RMB 57.5 million (US$7.9 million), respectively, which were calculated with reference to taxable revenue and taxable income. For Shengqu and Shanda Networking, incentives granted with reference to taxable revenue on which we pay business tax have a term of 3 years and for incentives granted with reference to taxable income on which we pay income tax have a term of 8 years. For Shengqu and Shanda Networking, the term of the government financial incentives for taxable revenues expired as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. The government financial incentives were reduced substantially in 2006 and for all subsequent years. Eligibility conditions for the government financial incentives we receive require that we continue to meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria and our continued qualification is further subject to the discretion of the municipal government. Moreover, the central government or municipal government could determine at any time to immediately eliminate or reduce these government financial incentives, generally with prospective effect. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2005, our income before income tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, and minority interests would have been RMB664.1 million, a decrease of 17.1% from the reported amount. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2006, our income before tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies and minority interests would have been RMB507.3 million, a decrease of 14.2% from the reported amount. If we had not received these government financial incentives in 2007, our income before income tax expenses, equity in loss of affiliated companies, and minority interests would have been RMB1,495.0 million (US$204.9 million), a decrease of 3.7% from the reported amount. As the receipt of these government financial incentives are subject to periodic time lags and inconsistent municipal government practice on payment times, for so long as we continue to receive these government financial incentives, our net income in a particular quarter may be higher or lower relative to other quarters based on the potentially uneven receipt by us of these government financial incentives in addition to any business or operating related factors we may otherwise experience. We cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives in the future. The discontinuation or reduction of these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see Item 5 for a discussion of the duration of these preferential tax treatments or government financial incentives. Interest and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the New EIT Law and implementations regulations issued by the PRC State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to interest and dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such interest or dividends have their sources within the PRC. 13 Table of Contents Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are deemed to be a PRC “resident enterprise,” dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to our company could be exempt from PRC dividend withholding tax, and dividends from our company to our ultimate shareholders would be subject to PRC withholding tax at 10% or a lower treaty rate. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on interest or dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the New EIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The New EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations to the New EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finance and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. We may become a passive foreign-investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2007. If we were or were to become a PFIC, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to additional reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our shares and ADSs, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for 2007 or that we will not be a PFIC for 2008 or any future taxable year. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see the subsection “Taxation” included in Item 10 “Additional Information”. We may be required to take significant actions that are contrary to our business objectives to avoid being deemed an investment company as defined under the Investment Company Act. Generally, the Investment Company Act provides that a company is not an investment company and is not required to register under the Investment Company Act as an investment company if: • the company is primarily engaged, directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary or subsidiaries, in a business or businesses other than those of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities; and • 40% or less of the fair market value of the company’s assets is represented by investment securities. We believe that we are engaged primarily in the businesses of, among other things, developing and operating online games. In addition, less than 40% of the fair market value of our assets is represented by investment securities. As a result, we believe, that we are not an investment company as that term is defined under the Investment Company Act. We may, however, be required to take significant actions that are contrary to our business objectives to avoid being deemed an investment company in the future. We may, for example, need to hold a significant portion of our assets and invest portions of our cash flows in low-yielding investments or we may need to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired. In addition, we may need 14 Table of Contents to sell all or a portion of our investments in Actoz, or forego opportunities to acquire minority interests in other companies that could be important to our strategy. The Investment Company Act also contains substantive regulations with respect to investment companies including restrictions on their capital structure, operations, transactions with affiliates and other matters which would be incompatible with our operations. If we were to be deemed an investment company in the future, we would, among other things, effectively be precluded from making public offerings in the United States. We could also be subject to other adverse consequences. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements, including SFAS 123R, may adversely affect our reported results of operations or how we conduct our business. A change in accounting pronouncements can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. For example, pursuant to SEC rules, we adopted the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”) starting January 1, 2006. SFAS 123R requires us to measure compensation costs for all share-based compensation at fair value and take compensation charges equal to that value. The method that we use to determine the fair value of stock options is based upon, among other things, the volatility of our ADSs. The price of our ADSs has historically been volatile. Therefore, the requirement to measure compensation costs for all share-based compensation under SFAS 123R could negatively affect our profitability and the trading price of our ADSs. SFAS 123R and the impact of expensing on our reported results could also limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Other new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. This change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. In particular, PRC insurance companies do not offer extensive business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by any of the factors identified in this section, including but not limited to our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; the announcement or introduction of new games or update to existing games by us or our competitors; technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures; seasonality of the online game market; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; governmental regulation; seasonal trends in Internet use; a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust our spending quickly; and general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the online game and China market. As a result of these and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our quarterly revenue and operating margin guidance is our best estimate at the time guidance is provided. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Regulation of the Internet and to Our Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online game industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. On December 11, 2001, the PRC State Counsel promulgated the Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises Regulation, or the FITE Regulation, which became effective on January 1, 2002. Under the FITE Regulation, foreign ownership of companies that provide value-added telecommunication services, which includes online game operation, is limited to 50%. In addition, foreign and 15 Table of Contents foreign-invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the licenses required to operate online games in China or to provide Internet information content, such as online advertising. We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and we conduct our operations in China primarily through Shengqu, our indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary. We and Shengqu are foreign or foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law and accordingly are ineligible to apply for a license to operate online games or to sell online advertising. In order to comply with foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our online game business in China through Shanda Networking, which is wholly-owned by Tianqiao Chen, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Danian Chen, our chief operating officer, both of whom are PRC citizens, and through Nanjing Shanda and Hangzhou Bianfeng, which are subsidiaries of Shanda Networking. Our PRC operating companies and other subsidiaries of Shanda Networking hold the licenses and approvals that are required to operate our online game business and to sell online advertising on our web pages and Shengqu owns the substantial majority of our physical assets. Shengqu has entered into a series of contractual arrangements with Shanda Networking and its shareholders. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we are considered the primary beneficiary of Shanda Networking and accordingly, we consolidate the results of operations of Shanda Networking and its subsidiaries in our financial statements. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Organizational Structure” in Item 4, “Information on the Company” and Item 7 “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. On July 13, 2006, the MII issued The Circular of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunication Services, or the MII Circular 2006. Under the MII Circular 2006, since the FITE Regulation went into effect, some foreign investors have been engaged in value-added telecom services illegally by conspiring with domestic value-added telecom enterprises to circumvent the requirements of the FITE Regulation by delegating domain names and licensing trademarks. In order to further intensify the administration of FITEs, the MII Circular 2006 provides that any domain name or trademark used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholders. The MII Circular 2006 also provides that the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecom carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecom services that the carrier has been approved to provide. In addition, value-added telecom carriers are required to establish or improve the measures of ensuring safety of network information. As to the companies which have obtained the operating licenses for value-added telecom services, they are required to conduct self-examination and self-correction according to the said requirements and report the result of such self-examination and self-correction to the provincial branches of the MII. Accordingly, Shengqu and Shanda Networking have certain corrective measures in order to achieve compliance with MII Circular 2006. Shengqu has transferred to Shanda Networking 22 domain names and 26 trademarks primarily used by our PRC operating companies. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, (1) the ownership structures of our company, Shengqu, and our PRC operating companies are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations; (2) our contractual arrangements with Shanda Networking and its shareholders are valid, binding and enforceable, and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect; and (3) the business operations of our company, Shengqu, and our PRC operating companies, as described in this annual report, are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations in all material aspects. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view that is contrary to our view. If we, Shengqu, or any of our PRC operating companies are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking our PRC companies’ business and operating licenses; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC companies’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, Shengqu or our PRC operating companies may not be able to comply; • requiring us, Shengqu or our PRC operating companies to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines, that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer and the price of our ADSs to decline. 16 Table of Contents The contractual arrangements related to critical aspects of our operations with Shanda Networking and its shareholders, Tianqiao Chen and Danian Chen, may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with Shanda Networking and its shareholders, Tianqiao Chen and Danian Chen, to operate our business. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over PRC operating companies. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of Shanda Networking, which, in turn, could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Shanda Networking or Tianqiao Chen or Danian Chen fails to perform its, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may include seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, any of which may not be effective. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to exert effective control over our PRC operating companies, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. The entire share capital of Shanda Networking is held by our controlling shareholders, who may cause the agreements between our company and Shanda Networking to be amended in a manner that is adverse to us. We conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate substantially all of our revenues, through our PRC operating companies. Our control over these entities is based upon contractual arrangements with Shanda Networking and its shareholders that provide us with the substantial ability to control Shanda Networking. The two shareholders of Shanda Networking, Tianqiao Chen and Danian Chen, are also our controlling shareholders. As a result, Tianqiao Chen and Danian Chen may be able to cause these agreements to be amended in a manner that will be adverse to our company, or may be able to prevent these agreements from being renewed, even if their renewal would be beneficial for us. Although we have entered into an agreement that prevents the amendment of these agreements without the approval of our audit committee, which is comprised of our independent directors, we can provide no assurances that these agreements will not be amended in the future to contain terms that may be adverse to our interests. Our arrangements with our PRC operating companies may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities for transfer pricing adjustments. We also could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with our PRC operating companies were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although we based our contractual arrangements on those of similar businesses, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recorded by our PRC operating companies, which could adversely affect us by: • increasing our PRC operating companies’ tax liability without reducing Shengqu or Shanda Computer’s tax liability, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our PRC operating companies for under-paid taxes; or • limiting Shengqu’s ability to maintain preferential tax treatments and government financial incentives, if the transfer pricing adjustment is significant. As a result, any transfer pricing adjustment could have a material and adverse impact upon our financial condition. Our corporate structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiary and our PRC operating companies, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese affiliated entity to another in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our PRC companies. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the 17 Table of Contents funds necessary to allow us to pay dividends on the shares underlying our ADSs and the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur, or financing we may need for operations other than through our PRC subsidiaries. If our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to the intermediate holding company and thus to us. We generate substantially all of our revenues through contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies. However, PRC governmental authorities may require us to amend these contractual arrangements in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, our PRC subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated PRC entities are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances, which restricted portion amounted to approximately RMB2,849.5 million (US$390.6 million), or 78.6%, of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2007. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated PRC entities to transfer funds to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay debt or dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In addition, any transfer of funds from us to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. It is not permitted under PRC law for our PRC companies to directly lend money to each other. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our company to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC companies could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese entity to another in a timely manner. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, regulations were promulgated by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, that require registration with local SAFE offices in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment by PRC residents, including PRC individual residents and PRC corporate entities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and also apply to our prior and future offshore acquisitions. In particular, the SAFE regulations require PRC residents to file with competent SAFE offices information about offshore companies in which they have directly or indirectly invested and to make follow-up filings in connection with certain material transactions involving such offshore companies, such as increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments, or external guarantees, or other material events that do not involve return investment. The SAFE regulations retroactively require registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. If a PRC resident with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Our major shareholders who are PRC residents or whose shares are beneficially owned by PRC residents, have completed foreign exchange registration with the local Shanghai Foreign Exchange Bureau according to these SAFE regulations. As a result of the newness of the regulations and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how the regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We are committed to complying and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulations comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulations or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of 18 Table of Contents which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute dividend to you could be materially and adversely affected. The laws and regulations governing the online game industry and related businesses in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating companies fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Internet industry, including the operation of online games, in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, such as the State Council, the MII, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, the MOC, the SAAP, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and online game industries. Our PRC operating companies are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their services. For example, an Internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain a value-added telecommunications business operation license, or ICP license, from the MII in order to engage in any commercial ICP operations within China. An online game operator must also obtain a license from the MOC and a license from the GAPP in order to distribute games through the Internet. In addition, in connection with our launch of certain EZ series products, which offer video and audio content, such as music and movies, our PRC operating companies may need to obtain a license from SARFT. We understand, however, that companies that are not state-owned may not be able to obtain such license. If any of our PRC operating companies fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, they may be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation or restriction of their operations. Any such disruption in business operations would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate a large number of websites, the domain names of which are registered under the names of Shanda Networking and Shengqu. In order to streamline and optimize our Internet publication businesses, we have started to put all of our Internet publication businesses, including our editing, content supervision, publication, and other related businesses, under Shanda Networking. We have reported to the MII of the change and Shanda Networking has applied to the GAPP for expanding its Internet publication license from the publication of online games to encompass books, newspapers, periodicals, music and video products, works in the fields of literature, art, natural science, social science, engineering, and other electronic publications. We believe that Shanda Networking has satisfied all qualifications required to obtain the permission for license expansion and we do not believe that, while its application is pending, the regulatory authorities will take any action against it. However, we cannot assure you that it will obtain this approval or that the regulatory authority will not take any action against it. As the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time, such as online advertising. Also, different regulatory authorities may have different opinions with regard to the licensing requirements imposed on online game operators. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the online game industry and related businesses. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it believes violates PRC law. The MII, the GAPP and the MOC have promulgated regulations that prohibit games from being distributed through the Internet if the games contain content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of the PRC, or compromise State security or secrets. In addition, certain PRC social organizations have recently discussed the possibility of implementing a rating system for online games. The effect that such a system could have on our business is unclear. If any games we offer were deemed to violate any such content restrictions, we would not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of our license for operating online games, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may also be subject to potential liability for unlawful actions of our users or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. Furthermore, we may be required to delete content that violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our games or other services in China. In February 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, the MOC, the MII and the GAPP jointly issued a circular regarding online gambling. In an effort to clamp down on online games that involve gambling and online betting as well as address concerns that “virtual money” might be used for money laundering or illicit trade, the circular (1) requires that the online game operators shall not charge commissions that employ “virtual money” or other means in relation to winning or losing of games; (2) requires online game operators to set up quantity limits in guessing and betting games by using game points; (3) bans the exchange of “virtual money” into real currencies or properties; and (4) bans the provision of services for game points transfer among game users. In February 2007, 14 PRC regulatory authorities jointly promulgated a circular with regard to further strengthening management of Internet cafe and online games, according to which, “virtual money” shall be strictly regulated by the People’s Bank of China, and in particular: (1) the aggregate amount of “virtual money” issued by online game operators and the amount of “virtual money” purchased by each individual online game player shall be restricted; (2) “virtual money” issued by online game operators can be only used for purchasing virtual products and services provided by the online game operators and shall not be used for purchasing tangible or physical products; (3) the price for converting “virtual money” back into the official currency by consumers shall not exceed the respective original purchase price; and (4) trading of “virtual money” is banned. We believe our online operations are in compliance with the provisions of these two circulars in all material aspects. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of these two circulars, and we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view that is contrary to our view. If the PRC regulatory authorities deem our online operations to be in violation of these two circulars, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The PRC government has announced its intention, and has begun, to intensify its regulation of Internet cafes, which are currently the primary venue for our users to play online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafes. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafes have been closed. The PRC government has also imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafes. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafes, may slow down the growth of Internet cafes. Moreover, the SAIC, one of the government agencies in charge of Internet cafe licensing, and other government agencies jointly issued a notice in February 2004 suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses for a period of six months. On February 15, 2007, fourteen PRC government departments jointly issued a circular in connection with the strengthening of Internet cafe and online game administration. According to the circular, local authorities were barred from issuing new Internet cafe licenses for the remainder of 2007. It is unclear when this suspension will be lifted, if at all. Since a substantial portion of our users play our games in Internet cafes, any reduction in the number, or slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafes in China, or any new regulatory restrictions on their operations, could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base, thereby reducing our profitability and growth prospects. Currently there are no laws or regulations in the PRC specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have for virtual assets. In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and in some cases are exchanged between players for monetary value. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently, there are no PRC laws and regulations specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, it is unclear who is the legal owner of virtual assets and whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and may be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal conditions and developments in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including in the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth since the late 1970’s, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented numerous measures to encourage economic growth and to guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, but also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect general economic conditions in China and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic and business matters. The overall effect of legislation since 1979 has been a significant enhancement of the protections afforded to various forms of foreign-invested enterprises in mainland China. Our PRC subsidiaries are wholly foreign owned enterprises, or WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated in mainland China and wholly-owned by foreign investors. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in mainland China in general and laws and regulations applicable to WFOEs in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently freely convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees to foreign game licensors, and our PRC operating companies may purchase foreign exchange for payment of license fees to foreign game licensors without the approval of SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. 21 Table of Contents Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are subject to limitations and require registration with or approval by the relevant PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of foreign currency loans, those loans cannot exceed certain statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions, those capital contributions must be approved by the MOC. Our ability to use the U.S. dollar proceeds of the sale of our equity or debt to finance our business activities conducted through our PRC subsidiaries will depend on our ability to obtain these governmental registrations or approvals. In addition, because of the regulatory issues related to foreign currency loans to, and foreign investment in, domestic PRC enterprises, we may not be able to finance Shanda Networking or its subsidiaries’ operations by loans or capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these governmental registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect our costs and operating margins. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in Renminbi terms. Where our operations conducted in Renminbi are reported in dollars, such fluctuations could result in changes in reported results which do not reflect changes in the underlying operations. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 18.0% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar by March 31, 2008. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, such a potential future devaluation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations. Moreover, we have material monetary assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars, which mainly consists of our bank deposits and investments in marketable securities and affiliated companies. The fluctuation of foreign exchange rate affects the value of these monetary assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Generally, an appreciation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange loss for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange gain for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. On the contrary, a devaluation of the Renminbi against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange gain for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange loss for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, certain of our acquisitions may expose us to additional currency fluctuations that would affect our reported valuation of those holdings. Actoz, which we began to consolidate beginning in the third quarter of 2007, is a South Korean company. Changes in its valuation as a consequence of fluctuations in the Korean Won would be reflected in our valuation. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge all or part of our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Conversely, an increase in the value of the Renminbi could increase our reported earnings in U.S. dollar terms without a fundamental change in our business or operating performance. Since our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, our valuation could be materially and adversely affected by the devaluation of the Renminbi if U.S. investors analyze our value based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain of our acquisitions may expose us to additional currency fluctuations that would affect our reported valuation of those holdings. Actoz, which we consolidated beginning in the third quarter of 2007, is a South Korean company; changes in its valuation as a consequence of fluctuations in the Korean Won would be reflected in our valuation. Inflation in China and/or measures to contain inflation could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in our costs, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, 22 Table of Contents limits on loans for fixed assets, and restrictions on state bank lending. Such austerity measures can lead to a slowing of economic growth. A slow down in the PRC economy could also materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon some of our directors and senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza, or avian flu, and SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of natural disasters, avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. On May 12, 2008, China experienced an earthquake with a reported magnitude of 8.0 in Sichuan Province. As of June 13, 2008, the death toll from the earthquake was estimated by PRC authorities to be 69,163 people but many people remain unaccounted for. As a result of the earthquake, we observed a three-day national period of mourning, during which we suspended our online games, for the victims in accordance with a public notice issued by the PRC government. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future natural disasters or outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Notice 78. According to the Individual Foreign Exchange Administration Rules issued by the People’s Bank of China, the concept “domestic individuals” Under Notice 78, PRC citizens who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted shares or stock options pursuant to our share incentive plan are subject to Notice 78 because we are an overseas listed company. However, in practice, there exist significant uncertainties with regard to the interpretation and implementation of Notice 78. We cannot provide any assurance that we or our Chinese employees will be able to comply with, qualify under, or obtain any registration required by Notice 78. In particular, if we and/or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Notice 78, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities, as a result of which our business operations and employee option plans could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to our ADSs One shareholder has significant control over the outcome of our shareholder votes. As of March 31, 2008, Premium Lead Company Limited, or Premium Lead, beneficially owned approximately 41.3% of our outstanding equity interests. Accordingly, Premium Lead has and is expected to maintain significant control over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. 23 Table of Contents If Premium Lead, which holds approximately 41.3% of our ordinary shares as of March 31, 2008, or any other major shareholder chooses to dispose of a material portion of the ordinary shares that it holds, the prevailing market price for our securities may decline. On December 27, 2007, Skyline Media Limited, or Skyline Media, transferred 60,000,000 of our ordinary shares, representing 41.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of March 31, 2008, to Premium Lead, whose beneficial owner is Tianqiao Chen, our chairman and chief executive officer. On September 19, 2007, Skyline Media sold 9,131,878 of our ordinary shares pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. On the day of this sale, the market price for our ordinary shares decreased by approximately 6.8%. If Premium Lead, or any other major shareholder, chooses to sell a material portion of the ordinary shares that it holds, or indicate its intention to do so, the prevailing market price for our securities may decline. The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. 24 Table of Contents The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since we completed our initial public offering in May 2004, the sale prices of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from US$10.58 to US$45.40 per ADS and the last reported sale price on June 26, 2008 was US$27.83. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2004 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of company law as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, the following: • provisions that restrict the ability of our shareholders to call meetings and to propose special matters for consideration at shareholder meetings; and • provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. A holder of our ADSs may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast, or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The 25 Table of Contents depositary may close its books for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer, or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 