RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the reports that we file with the SEC, together with the other information we include or incorporate by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under ‘‘Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995’’. Risks Relating to Our Business We emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in November 2002, have a history of losses and do not expect to have net income in the near future. We emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in November 2002, have a history of losses and do not expect to have positive net income in the near future due to the increased interest expense and non-cash depreciation, amortization and accretion that we are generating in connection with the Sprint Transaction and other tower acquisitions, and their respective financings. Prior to our emergence from bankruptcy, we were unable to meet our financial obligations due primarily to (1) our highly leveraged capital structure, (2) the non-strategic acquisition of assets we have subsequently disposed of that were unrelated to our core tower business and (3) the inability of our former management to efficiently integrate and manage our communications sites. To a lesser extent, we were unable to meet our financial obligations due to the reduced amount of capital spending by wireless carriers on their networks in 2001 and 2002. Prior to our reorganization, we incurred net losses of approximately $448.2 million in 2001 and $124.3 million in 2000. In accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 90-7 Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code, we adopted fresh start accounting as of November 1, 2002, and our emergence from Chapter 11 resulted in a new reporting entity. Under fresh start accounting, the reorganization value of the entity is allocated to the entity's assets based on fair values, and liabilities are stated at the present value of amounts to be paid determined at appropriate current interest rates. The effective date was considered to be the close of business on November 1, 2002, for financial reporting purposes. The periods presented prior to November 1, 2002, have been designated ‘‘predecessor company’’ and the periods starting on November 1, 2002, have been designated ‘‘successor company.’’ As a result of the implementation of fresh start accounting as of November 1, 2002, our financial statements after that date are not comparable to our financial statements for prior periods because of the differences in the basis of accounting and the debt and equity structure for the predecessor company and the successor company. The more significant effects of the differences in the basis of accounting on the successor company's financial statements are (1) lower depreciation and amortization expense as a result of the revaluation of our long-lived assets downward by $357.2 million through the application of fresh start accounting, and (2) lower interest expense in the periods immediately following our reorganization as a result of the discharge of $404.8 million of debt upon our emergence from bankruptcy. On May 26, 2005, we closed an agreement with Sprint under which we have the exclusive right to lease or operate 6,553 communications towers and related assets of Sprint for a period of 32 years, for which we have paid an upfront rental payment of approximately $1.2 billion. We have accounted for the Sprint Transaction as a capital lease and allocated the upfront rental payment to the leased assets (primarily towers and identifiable intangible assets) based on their fair market values similar to an acquisition of tower assets. We will depreciate and amortize the tangible and intangible assets over their estimated useful lives and as a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant additional depreciation, amortization and accretion expense. We also financed the Sprint Transaction in part with borrowings under an $850.0 million bridge loan, which was repaid with a portion of the net proceeds from our February 2006 mortgage loan, which has resulted and will continue to result in significant additional interest expense. We also have incurred significant integration costs and additional selling, general and administrative expenses. Because of the significant interest expense, depreciation, amortization, accretion, integration costs and selling, general and administrative expenses we have incurred and expect to continue to incur in connection with the Sprint Transaction, we expect to generate net losses in future periods. 20 For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated a loss from continuing operations of $38.2 million. We may encounter difficulties in acquiring towers at attractive prices or integrating acquisitions with our operations, which could limit our revenue growth, increase our selling, general and administrative expenses, and increase our expected net losses. In 2005, we acquired or entered into definitive agreements to acquire 876 communications sites, including fee and easement interests in certain real estate parcels under our towers, which we previously leased from third parties, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $235.3 million, including fees and expenses. Additionally, on May 26, 2005, we closed an agreement with Sprint under which we have the exclusive right to lease or operate 6,553 communications towers and related assets of Sprint for a period of 32 years, for which we paid an upfront rental payment of approximately $1.2 billion. We intend to continue to target strategic tower and tower company acquisitions as opportunities arise. The process of integrating acquired sites into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, diversion of managerial attention or the requirement of significant financial resources. These acquisitions and other future acquisitions may require us to incur additional indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and may result in unforeseen expenses or compliance issues, which may limit our revenue growth, cash flows and our ability to make distributions. In addition, as a result of increased depreciation, amortization and accretion expense and interest expense associated with our acquisitions, we are incurring net losses. For example, in connection with the Sprint Transaction we borrowed $850.0 million under a bridge loan with Morgan Stanley Asset Funding Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., which we recently repaid with a portion of the net proceeds from our February 2006 mortgage loan. We expect to finance other future acquisitions with additional borrowings, which would further increase our interest expense, or through the issuance of additional equity, which would dilute the interests of our stockholders. Furthermore, in anticipation of the closing of the Sprint Transaction, on May 9, 2005, we closed an underwritten public offering of 6,325,000 shares of our common stock at $30.70 per share and, on May 26, 2005, we issued $250.0 million of our common stock to our three largest stockholders at a price of $25.50 per share. Moreover, the towers we have acquired may not provide us with the cash flows we projected and future acquisitions may not generate any additional income or cash flows for us or provide any benefit to our business. Competition for communication towers has become greater in the last several months, leading sellers to generally demand higher prices, thus reducing the attractiveness of certain possible investments. This increased competition has caused a significant decrease in the number of towers we have acquired during the second half of 2005 and in our acquisition pipeline. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding purchase agreements to acquire 12 communications sites from various sellers for a total estimated purchase price of $6.5 million. This compares to outstanding purchase agreements on 214 sites, excluding the Sprint Transaction, as of April 29, 2005. Thus, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and acquire towers at attractive prices, or at all, in locations that are compatible with our strategy, or that competition for the acquisition of towers will not increase further. Finally, when we are able to locate towers and enter into definitive agreements to acquire them, we cannot assure you that the transactions will be completed. Failure to complete transactions after we have entered into definitive agreements may result in significant expenses to us. A decrease in the demand for our communications sites and our ability to attract additional tenants could negatively impact our financial position. Our business depends on wireless service providers' demand for communications sites, which in turn, depends on consumer demand for wireless services. A reduction in tenant demand for our communications sites or increased competition for additional tenants could negatively impact our cash flows and harm our ability to attract additional tenants. Our wireless service provider customers lease communications site space on our towers based on a number of factors, including the location of our towers, the level of demand by consumers for wireless services, the financial condition and access to capital of those providers, the strategy of providers with respect to owning, leasing or sharing communications sites, available spectrum and related infrastructure, competitive pricing, government regulation of communications licenses, and the characteristics of each company's technology and geographic terrain. 21 To a lesser degree, demand for site space is also dependent on the needs of television and radio broadcasters. Among other things, technological advances, including the development of satellite-delivered radio and television, may reduce the need for tower-based broadcast transmission. Any decrease in the demand for our site space from current levels or in our ability to attract additional customers could negatively impact our financial position and could decrease the value of your investment in our common stock. Increasingly, transmissions that were previously effected by means of paging and mobile radio technologies have shifted to wireless telephony. As a result, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, decreases in the percentage of our revenues generated by our paging and mobile radio customers offset by increases in the percentage of our revenues that are generated from wireless telephony customers. We cannot assure you that the increases in our revenues from wireless telephony customers will offset the reduction in our revenues from paging and mobile radio customers. Some of our towers may not be as attractive to, or suitable for, wireless telephony customers as for our other types of customers, which could negatively impact our financial position. Failure to successfully and efficiently integrate the Sprint Transaction into our operations may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our ability to successfully integrate the Sprint Transaction is uncertain. The Sprint Transaction is significantly larger than any acquisition we have previously completed. We are leasing more towers from Sprint than the total number of communications sites we operated before closing the Sprint Transaction. The integration of the 6,553 Sprint Towers into our operations is a significant undertaking and has required, and will continue to require, significant resources, as well as attention from our management team. To manage the Sprint Towers, we have added over 100 additional employees, which has added significant labor costs and overhead. In addition, the integration of the Sprint Towers into our operations required significant one-time costs. We incurred $7.1 million of integration costs related to the Sprint Transaction during the year ended December 31, 2005, and expect to incur additional expenses in the first quarter of 2006. Additional integration challenges include: • successfully marketing space on the Sprint Towers; • retaining existing tenants on the Sprint Towers; • retaining and integrating talented new employees; • incorporating the Sprint Towers into our business and accounting operations; and • maintaining our standards, controls, procedures, and policies. If we are not able to successfully overcome these integration and operating challenges, we may not achieve the benefits we expect from the Sprint Transaction, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our revenues may be adversely affected by the economies, real estate markets and communications industries in the regions where our sites are located. The revenues generated by our sites could be adversely affected by the conditions of the economies, the real estate markets and the communications industries in regions where our sites are located, changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies, acts of nature including hurricanes (which may result in uninsured or under-insured losses), and other factors particular to the locales of the respective sites. Our sites are located in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Canada and the United Kingdom. The economy of any state or region in which a site is located may be adversely affected to a greater degree than that of other regions by developments affecting industries concentrated in such state or region. To the extent that general economic or other relevant conditions in states or regions in which sites representing significant portions of our revenues are located, decline or result in a decrease in demand communications services in the region, our revenues from such sites may be adversely affected. For example, our sites in Florida, Texas, and Georgia together accounted for approximately 25.2% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. A deterioration of general economic or other relevant conditions in those states could result in a decrease in the demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues from those markets, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 22 Consolidation in the wireless industry and changes to the regulations governing wireless services could decrease the demand for our sites and may lead to reductions in our revenues. Various wireless service providers, which are our primary existing and potential customers, have entered into mergers and acquisitions, and others could enter into mergers, acquisitions or joint ventures with each other over time. For example, on October 26, 2004, Cingular Wireless merged with AT&T Wireless. On August 12, 2005, Sprint merged with Nextel Communications, resulting in the creation of Sprint Nextel Corporation. In addition, in 2005 and through February 28, 2006, Sprint Nextel acquired five Sprint-branded wireless affiliates: U.S. Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless, IWO Holdings, Alamosa Holdings, and Enterprise Communications. In addition, the shareholders of Nextel Partners, a Nextel-branded affiliate of Sprint Nextel, exercised its put right requiring Sprint Nextel to acquire that company. On August 1, 2005, Alltel completed its acquisition of Western Wireless. Such consolidations could reduce the size of our customer base and have a negative impact on the demand for our services. In addition, consolidation among our customers is often likely to result in duplicate networks, which could result in network rationalization and impact the revenues at our sites. For example, Cingular recently announced plans to eliminate approximately 7,000 of its cell sites as part of its integration of the AT&T Wireless network. This will adversely impact tenant lease revenues at some of our communications sites. Recent regulatory developments have made consolidation in the wireless industry easier and more likely. In November 2002, the FCC's, Spectrum Policy Task Force issued a report containing a number of specific recommendations for spectrum policy reform, including market-oriented spectrum rights, increased access to spectrum and new interference protections. Subsequently, in May and October of 2003 and September of 2004, the FCC adopted and proceeded to implement new rules authorizing wireless radio services holding exclusive licenses to freely lease unused spectrum. Additionally, in November 2003, the FCC made additional spectrum available for unlicensed use. In September 2004, the FCC adopted amendments to its spectrum regulations in order to promote the deployment of spectrum-based services in rural America, allowing carriers to use higher power levels at base stations in certain rural areas. Finally, in August 2004, the FCC took steps to remedy the interference caused by commercial mobile radio services (CMRS) operators on public safety operations in the 800 MHz band and provided for the relocation of various CMRS and private mobile service operators in the 800 and 1900 MHz bands. It is possible that at least some wireless service providers may take advantage of the relaxation of spectrum and ownership limitations and other deregulatory actions of the FCC and consolidate or modify their business operations. Regarding our broadcast customers, in 1996, Congress authorized the FCC to assign a second channel to every eligible television station licensee to begin the process of converting over the air television signals from analog to digital. In 2005, Congress mandated that the transition to digital television be completed by February 17, 2009. After assigning the new DTV channels in 1996 and 1997, the FCC imposed certain DTV build-out deadlines on both commercial and non-commercial stations, ranging from May 1, 1999, to May 1, 2003, although the Commission approved hundreds of DTV construction extensions on a case-by-case basis. According to the FCC, a total of 1,722 DTV stations were on the air as of February 1, 2006, representing over 90 percent of the DTV channels awarded. 705 of these stations (nearly 41%) were operating under a Special Temporary Authority (STA) with very low power levels. In September 2004, the FCC released a Report and Order establishing full power DTV build-out deadlines in July 2005 and July 2006. These full power DTV build-out deadlines could increase the demand for broadcast towers. Congress and/or the FCC may take further actions regarding the transition to DTV and return of the broadcasters' analog spectrum. We cannot predict the nature or timing of any such actions or their effects on our business or results of operations. Our revenues are dependent on the creditworthiness of our tenants, which could result in uncollectible accounts receivable and the loss of significant customers and anticipated lease revenues. Our revenues are dependent on the creditworthiness of our tenants and would be adversely affected by the loss, or bankruptcy of, or default by, significant tenants. Our tenant leases are generally not guaranteed by the parent companies of our tenants or supported by other credit enhancement and, as a result, we must rely solely on the creditworthiness of our tenants. Many wireless service providers operate with substantial leverage and some of our customers, representing 0.5% of our revenues for the years 23 ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 are in bankruptcy. Other customers are having financial difficulties due to their declining subscriber bases and/or their inability to access additional capital. If one or more of our major customers experience financial difficulties, it could result in uncollectible accounts receivable and the loss of significant customers and anticipated lease revenues. We have significant customer concentration and the loss of one or more of our major customers or a reduction in their utilization of our site space could result in a material reduction in our revenues. Our three largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2005, represented 53.2% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, and our five largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2004, represented 52.3% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004. Our three largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2005, were Sprint Nextel (after giving effect to the Nextel merger and three Sprint-branded wireless affiliate acquisitions), Cingular and T-Mobile, which represented 31.1%, 14.9% and 7.2%, respectively, of our revenues. Our five largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2004, were USA Mobility (after giving effect to the Arch Wireless and Metrocall merger), Cingular (after giving effect to its merger with AT&T Wireless), Sprint (after giving effect to its merger with Nextel Communications and three Sprint-branded wireless affiliate acquisitions), Verizon Wireless (after giving effect to its merger with MCI) and T-Mobile. These customers represented 14.9%, 13.2%, 13.1%, 6.1%, and 5.0%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004. These customers operate under multiple lease agreements that have initial terms generally ranging from three to five years and which are renewable, at our customer's option, over multiple renewal periods also generally ranging from three to five years. The Sprint collocation leases entered into as part of the Sprint Transaction have an initial period of ten years. One of our primary master tenant leases with USA Mobility, the Arch Lease, expired in May 2005 and we executed a new master tenant lease, effective July 1, 2005, with USA Mobility on terms less favorable to us than the prior lease. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 67% of our revenues from our three largest customers were from leases in their initial term, 32% were from leases in a renewal period, and 1% was from month-to-month and year to year leases. The loss of one or more of our major customers or a reduction in their utilization of our site space could result in a material reduction of the utilization of our site space and in our revenues. We have had material weaknesses in our internal controls and these have not been remedied. During our assessment of our internal controls as of December 31, 2005, we noted two material weaknesses: • Lack of adequate controls over the accuracy of automated computations related to accounting for non-cash aspects of tenant and ground leases and the data used in these computations; and • Lack of adequate controls over acquisition accounting, detail account analyses supporting certain account balances, and reviews thereof, primarily due to lack of tenured financial accounting and reporting personnel. These material weaknesses led us to conclude that our internal controls were ineffective as of December 31, 2005. These material weaknesses resulted in adjustments to certain accounts in our annual financial statements. We believe the material weaknesses were primarily a result of the implementation of a new lease administration system, the effort required to effectively integrate and account for the Sprint Transaction and other acquisitions, and many changes to our financial accounting and reporting staff. To remediate these material weaknesses we will spend significant amounts of time, money, and management attention during 2006, including costs related to (i) computer system enhancements, and the likely replacement of our lease administration system, (ii) data revalidation and (iii) redesigning processes and controls. We will also hire additional qualified, experienced accounting personnel. These material weakenesses have not been remedied and it will take substantial efforts to correct them if we are able to do so, at all, in 2006. 24 As of December 31, 2005, our tenant leases had a weighted average current term of 6.4 years and a weighted average remaining term of 4.5 years, excluding optional renewal periods. Our revenues depend on the renewal of our tenant leases by our customers. As of December 31, 2005, our tenant leases had a weighted average current term of 6.4 years and a weighted average remaining term of 4.5 years, excluding optional renewal periods. We cannot assure you that our existing tenants will renew their leases at the expiration of those leases. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in negotiating favorable terms with those customers that renew their tenant leases. Generally, failure to obtain renewals of our existing tenant leases, or the failure to successfully negotiate favorable terms for such renewals, would result in a reduction in our revenues. We implemented new software systems throughout our business and may encounter integration problems that affect our ability to serve our customers and maintain our records, which in turn could harm our ability to operate our business. During 2004 and 2005, we implemented new software systems throughout our business. We implemented PeopleSoft financial systems in July 2004 for many of our accounting functions, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, fixed assets, general ledger and all internal reporting functions. PeopleSoft Customer Relationship Management (CRM) was also implemented to manage the process of adding new leases. We may implement additional PeopleSoft modules during 2006 to improve operating performance and to take advantage of the functionality offered by the PeopleSoft system. We also implemented a separate software package, manageStar, to manage data relating to our communications sites, including tenant and ground leases and other operational data. The manageStar system is operating, but we have yet to realize the operating efficiency gains expected. In addition, weaknesses in the manageStar system contributed to our having a material weakness in the operation of our internal controls. We anticipate that the manageStar system will need to be replaced to realize the desired efficiencies, which would entail additional expenses and potential interruptions. The integration of these software systems with our business is a significant undertaking and it is possible that difficulties and systems interruptions could occur. These systems process our most significant business activities and interruptions could adversely affect our operations, including the ability to service customers and get invoices sent in a timely manner which could adversely affect our revenues. We have experienced high employee turnover. We have experienced high employee turnover during 2005. Of 297 employees working on December 31, 2005, 151 have been employed by the Company less than one year. In our accounting department, the average tenure of employees is 6 months. This has lead in part to a material weakness in our internal controls, discussed in greater detail under "Item 9A, Controls and Procedures." There has also been substantial turnover in our management. Our employment relationship with seven executives has terminated since the beginning of 2005. We have replaced several of these executives with either new hires or promotions from within the Company and we are actively recruiting outside the Company to replace other executives. If we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our ability to conduct our business operations effectively, remediate weaknesses in internal controls and our overall operating results could be harmed. If we are unable to successfully compete, our business will suffer. We believe that tower location and capacity, price, quality of service and density within a geographic market historically have been, and will continue to be, the most significant competitive factors affecting our site operations business. We compete for customers with: • wireless service providers that own and operate their own towers and lease, or may in the future decide to lease, antenna space to other providers; • other independent tower operators; and • owners of non-tower antenna sites, including rooftops, water towers and other alternative structures. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial resources than we do. The intense competition in our industry may make it more difficult for us to attract new tenants, increase our gross margins, or maintain or increase our market share. 25 Among tower companies that operate nationally or regionally, our principal competitors include publicly held American Tower Corporation, Crown Castle International Corp. and SBA Communications Corporation, as well as AAT Communications Corporation and Global Tower Partners, which are privately held. Among acquisition companies focused on acquiring real estate interest under towers, our principal competitors are Unison and Wireless Capital Partners, both of which are privately held. Competing technologies may offer alternatives to ground-based antenna systems, which could reduce the future demand for our sites. Most types of wireless and broadcast services currently require ground-based network facilities, including communications sites for transmission and reception. The development and growth of communications and other new technologies that do not require ground-based sites could reduce the demand for space on our towers. For example, the growth in delivery of video, voice and data services by satellites or high altitude air ships, which allow communication directly to users' terminals without the use of ground-based facilities, could lessen demand for our sites. Moreover, the FCC has issued licenses for several additional satellite systems (including low earth orbit systems) that are intended to provide more advanced, high-speed data services directly to consumers. These satellite systems compete with land-based communications systems, thereby reducing the demand for the services that we provide. Equipment and software developments are increasing our tenants' ability to more efficiently utilize spectral capacity and to share transmitters, which could reduce the future demand for our sites. Technological developments are also making it possible for carriers to expand their use of existing facilities to provide service without additional tower facilities. The increased use by carriers of signal combining and related technologies, which allow two or more carriers to provide services on different transmission frequencies using the communications antenna and other facilities normally used by only one carrier, could reduce the demand for tower space. Technologies that enhance spectral capacity, such as beam forming or ‘‘smart antennas’’, which can increase the capacity at existing sites and reduce the number of additional sites a given carrier needs to serve any given subscriber base, may have the same effect. Carrier joint ventures and roaming agreements, which allow for the use of competitor transmission facilities and spectrum, may reduce future demand for incremental sites. Carriers are, through joint ventures, sharing (or considering the sharing of) telecommunications infrastructure in ways that might adversely impact the growth of our business. Furthermore, wireless service providers frequently enter into roaming agreements with their competitors which allow them to utilize each other's communications facilities to accommodate customers who are out of range of their home providers' services, so that the home providers do not need to lease space for their own antennas on communications sites we own. Any of the conditions and described above could reduce demand for our antenna sites and decrease demand for our site space from current levels and our ability to attract additional customers and may negatively affect our profitability. We may be unable to modify our towers or procure additional ground space, which could harm our ability to add additional space to our communications sites and new customers, which could result in our inability to execute our growth strategy and therefore limit our revenue growth. Our ability to add new customers as they expand their tower network infrastructure depends in part on our ability to modify towers and procure additional ground space. Regulatory and other barriers could adversely affect our ability to modify towers or procure additional ground space in accordance with the requirements of our customers, and, as a result, we may not be able to meet our customers' requirements. Our ability to modify towers, procure additional ground space and add new customers to towers may be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including zoning and local permitting requirements, FAA considerations, FCC tower registration and radio frequency emission procedures and requirements, historic preservation and environmental requirements, availability of tower components, additional ground space and construction equipment, availability of skilled construction personnel, weather conditions and environmental compliance issues. In addition, because public concern over tower proliferation has grown in recent years, many communities now restrict tower modifications or delay granting permits required for adding new customers. Additionally, we may not be able to overcome the 26 barriers to modifying towers or adding new customers. Our failure to complete the necessary modifications or procure additional ground space could harm our ability to add additional site space and new customers, which could result in our inability to execute our growth strategy and limit our revenue growth. We may not be able to obtain credit facilities in the future on favorable terms to enable us to pursue our acquisition plans, and we may not be able to finance our newly acquired assets in the future or refinance outstanding indebtedness on favorable terms, which may result in an increase in the cost of financing and which in turn may harm our financial condition, our ability to acquire new towers and make dividend payments. Our strategy is to utilize credit facilities to provide us with funds to acquire communications sites, and our capital management strategy is to finance newly acquired assets, on a long-term basis, using equity issuances combined with low-cost fixed-rate debt obtained through the periodic issuance of mortgage-backed securities. We may not be able to obtain credit facilities or successfully undertake the issuance of equity or mortgage-backed securities in the future or on terms that are favorable to us. If we are unable to acquire assets through the use of funds from a credit facility or finance our newly acquired assets through the issuance of mortgage-backed securities, our debt may be more expensive and our expenses to finance new acquisitions may increase. An increase in financing expenses may harm our financial condition and impair our ability to acquire new towers and make dividend payments. Repayment of the principal of our outstanding indebtedness will require additional financing that we cannot ensure will be available to us. Prior to our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy, we funded our operations primarily through debt and equity capital. Since our emergence from bankruptcy on November 1, 2002, we have funded our operations through operating cash flow. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will continue to depend on our future financial performance. As of December 31, 2005, our debt obligations consisted of $404.1 million principal amount on our February 2004 mortgage loan, $293.8 million principal amount on our December 2004 mortgage loan, $850.0 million principal amount on our bridge loan used to partially fund the Sprint Transaction, $144.7 on our acquisition credit facility, and $1.0 million principal amount on capital leases. On February 28, 2006, we repaid and terminated our February 2004 mortgage loan, the bridge loan, and the acquisition credit facility with a portion of the proceeds we received from the February 2006 mortgage loan, which at closing had a principal balance of $1.55 billion and an anticipated repayment date of February 2011. Of the outstanding obligations at December 31, 2005, (pro forma for the February 2006 mortgage loan), $0.5 million was due in one year or less, $0.4 million was due between one and three years, $293.8 million is due between three and five years and $1,550.0 million is due after five years. Our $15.0 million revolving credit agreement, under which we currently have no borrowings outstanding, matures on December 1, 2006. We currently anticipate that in order to pay the principal of our outstanding December 2004 and February 2006 mortgage loans on the maturity date and anticipated repayment date of December 2009 and February 2011, respectively, we will likely be required to pursue one or more alternatives, such as refinancing our indebtedness or selling our equity securities, or the equity securities or assets of our operating partnership and our subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on attractive terms and conditions or that we will be able to obtain additional debt financing. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness in full, we may be required to issue additional equity securities or sell assets. If we are required to sell equity securities, investors may have their holdings diluted. If we are required to sell interests in our operating partnership, this would have a similar effect as a sale of assets and the market price of our equity securities may decline. In addition, there can be no assurance as to the terms and prices at which we will be able to sell additional equity securities or operating partnership interests or that we will be able to sell additional equity securities or sell operating partnership interests at all. If we are required to sell assets to refinance our indebtedness, there can be no assurance as to the price we will obtain for the assets sold and whether those sales will realize sufficient funds to repay our outstanding indebtedness. To the extent we are required to sell assets at prices lower than their fair market values, the market price of our equity securities may decline. 27 Our mortgage loans restrict the ability of our four largest operating subsidiaries, Pinnacle Towers LLC, Pinnacle Towers Acquisition LLC, Global Signal Acquisitions LLC and Global Signal Acquisitions II LLC and their respective subsidiaries, from incurring additional indebtedness or further encumbering their assets. Our mortgage loans do not otherwise restrict our ability to obtain additional financing. If we require additional financing in connection with acquisitions, we anticipate we will need to raise equity, obtain a credit facility similar to the acquisition credit facility we repaid with a portion of the net proceeds from our February 2006 mortgage loan or obtain financing through a securitization of acquired sites similar to the ones completed on December 7, 2004, and February 28, 2006. We cannot assure you that we could affect any of the foregoing alternatives on terms satisfactory to us, that any of the foregoing alternatives would enable us to pay the interest or principal of our indebtedness or that any of such alternatives would be permitted by the terms of our credit facilities and other indebtedness then in effect. You may not be able to compare our historical financial information to our current financial information, which will make it more difficult to evaluate an investment in our common stock. As a result of our emergence from bankruptcy, we are operating our business with a new capital structure, and adopted fresh start accounting prescribed by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States or GAAP. Accordingly, unlike other companies that have not previously filed for bankruptcy protection, our financial condition and results of operations are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements for periods prior to November 1, 2002. Without historical financial statements to compare to our current performance, it may be more difficult for you to assess our future prospects when evaluating an investment in our common stock. Our failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations could result in our being fined, being liable for damages and, in some cases, the loss of our right to conduct some of our business. We are subject to a variety of regulations, including those at the federal, state and local levels. Both the FCC and the FAA regulate towers and other sites used for communications transmitters and receivers. In addition, under the FCC's rules, we are fully liable for the acts or omissions of our contractors. We generally indemnify our customers against any failure by us to comply with applicable standards. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations (including as a result of acts or omissions of our contractors, which may be beyond our control) may lead to monetary forfeitures or other enforcement actions, as well as civil penalties, contractual liability and tort liability and, in some cases, the loss of our right to conduct some of our business, any of which could have an adverse impact on our business. We also are subject to local regulations and restrictions that typically require tower owners to obtain a permit or other approval from local officials or community standards organizations prior to tower construction or modification. Local regulations could delay or prevent new tower construction or modifications, as well as increase our expenses, any of which could adversely impact our ability to implement or achieve our business objectives. The failure of our communications sites to comply with environmental laws could result in liability and claims for damages that could result in a significant increase in the cost of operating our business. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that impose liability, including those without regard to fault. These laws and regulations place responsibility on us to investigate potential environmental and other effects of operations and to disclose any significant effects in an environmental assessment prior to constructing a tower or adding a new customer on a tower. In the event the FCC determines that one of our owned towers would have a significant environmental impact, the FCC would require us to prepare and file an environmental impact statement. The environmental review process mandated by the NEPA can be costly and may cause significant delays in the registration of a particular tower or collocating an antenna. In addition, various environmental interest groups routinely petition the FCC to deny applications to register new or modify existing towers, further complicating the registration process and increasing potential expenses and delays. In September 2003, the FCC released a Notice of Inquiry requesting comments and information on the potential impact of communications towers on migratory birds. On December 14, 2004, the FCC released a public notice inviting comments on the analysis and report provided by its environmental consultant regarding the relationship of towers and avian mortality. Certain petitioners have filed a petition for a writ of mandamus from ‘‘unreasonable’’ agency action delays 28 by the FCC. Current studies being conducted by the University of Central Michigan, the U.S. Coast Guard and others will provide further information within the next year or two that will be used by the FCC in assessing the issues. Any changes to FCC rules that come from this proceeding, as well as changes resulting from other potential rulemakings, could delay or prevent new tower construction or modifications as well as increase our expenses related thereto. In addition to the FCC's environmental regulations, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws that may require the investigation and remediation of any contamination at facilities that we own or operate, or that we previously owned or operated, or at third-party waste disposal sites at which our waste materials have been disposed. These laws could impose liability even if we did not know of, or were not responsible for, the contamination, and the amount of protection that we may receive from sellers with respect to liabilities arising before our ownership of the asset varies based on the terms of the applicable purchase agreement. The terms of the purchase agreements themselves often depend upon the nature of the sale process, price paid and the amount of competition for the asset. Under these laws, we may also be required to obtain permits from governmental authorities or may be subject to record keeping and reporting obligations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. The expenses of complying with existing or future environmental laws, responding to petitions filed by environmental interest groups or other activists, investigating and remediating any contaminated real property and resolving any related liability could result in a significant increase in the cost of operating our business, which would harm our financial condition. Because we generally lease, sublease, license or have easements relating to the land under our towers, our ability to conduct our business, secure financing and generate revenues may be harmed if we fail to obtain lease renewals or protect our rights under our leases, subleases, licenses and easements. Our real property interests relating to towers primarily consist of leasehold interests, private easements, and permits granted by governmental entities. A loss of these interests for any reason, including losses arising from the bankruptcy of a significant number of our lessors, from the default by a significant number of our lessors under their mortgage financings or from a legal challenge to our interest in the real property, would interfere with our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues. Similarly, if the grantors of these rights elect not to renew our leases, our ability to conduct business and generate revenues could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2005, 4.3% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, was generated from 424 owned towers and towers we hold subject to long-term leases under 410 parcels of land with remaining lease terms of two years or less. In addition, prior to our reorganization, we made acquisitions of communications sites and did not always analyze and verify all information regarding title and other issues prior to completing them. Our inability to protect our rights to the land under our towers could interfere with our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues. Generally, we have attempted to protect our rights in the sites by obtaining title insurance on the owned fee sites and the ground lease sites and relying on title warranties and covenants from sellers and landlords. Furthermore, the protections we are able to obtain in the purchase agreements vary and often depend upon the nature of the sale process, price paid and the amount of competition for the assets. Our ability to protect our rights against persons claiming superior rights in towers or real property depends on our ability to: • recover under title insurance policies, the policy limits of which may be less than the purchase price or economic value of a particular tower; • in the absence of title insurance coverage, recover under title warranties given by tower sellers, which often terminate after the expiration of a specific period (typically nine months to three years), contain various exceptions and are dependent on the general creditworthiness of sellers making the title warranties; • obtain estoppels from landlords in connection with the acquisitions, or in some cases the subsequent financing, of communications sites, which protect the collateral of our lenders and may provide a basis for defending post-closing claims arising from pre-closing events; 29 • recover from landlords under title covenants contained in lease agreements, which are dependent on the general creditworthiness of landlords making the title covenants; and • obtain non-disturbance agreements from mortgagee and superior lienholders of the land under our towers. Our tenant leases require us to be responsible for the maintenance and repair of the sites and for other obligations and liabilities associated with the sites, and our obligations to maintain the sites may affect our revenues. None of our tenant leases is a net lease. Accordingly, as landlord we are responsible for the maintenance and repair of the sites and for other obligations and liabilities (including for environmental compliance and remediation) associated with the sites, such as the payment of real estate taxes, ground lease rents and the maintenance of insurance. Our failure to perform our obligations under a tenant lease could entitle the related tenant to abatement of rent or in some circumstances, result in a termination of the tenant lease. An unscheduled reduction or cessation of payments due under a tenant lease would result in a reduction of our revenues. Similarly, if the expenses of maintaining and operating one or more sites exceed amounts budgeted, and if lease revenues from other sites are not available to cover the shortfall, funds that would otherwise be used for other purposes may be required to pay the shortfall. Site management agreements may be terminated prior to expiration, which may adversely affect our revenues. Approximately 694 sites, as of December 31, 2005 (representing approximately 8.6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005), are managed sites where we market and/or sublease space under site management agreements with third party owners. The management agreements or subleases on 304 of these sites, which represented 3.0% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, are month-to-month or will expire by their terms prior to December 31, 2006. In many cases, the site management agreements may be terminated early at the third party owner's discretion or upon the occurrence of certain events (such as the sale of the relevant site by the third party owner, our default, a change of control with respect to our Company and other events negotiated with the third party owner including discretionary terminations). If a site management agreement is not renewed or is terminated early, our revenues may be reduced. Our towers may be damaged by disaster and other unforeseen events for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage and which may cause service interruptions affecting our reputation and revenues, resulting in unanticipated expenditures. Our towers are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, such as ice and windstorms, fire, tornadoes, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, as well as other unforeseen events. Our sites and any tenants' equipment are also vulnerable to damage from human error, physical or electronic security breaches, power loss, other facility failures, sabotage, acts of terrorism, vandalism and similar events. In the event of casualty, it is possible that any tenant sustaining damage may assert a claim against us for such damages. If reconstruction (for example, following fire or other casualty) or any major repair or improvement is required to the property, changes in laws and governmental regulations may be applicable and may raise our cost or impair our ability to effect such reconstruction, major repair or improvement. From January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005, 24 of our owned towers have been destroyed by natural disasters, including hurricanes, two have been destroyed in vehicular accidents and two in fire accidents. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we owned, leased and licensed a large number of towers in geographic areas, including 1,154 sites in Texas, 986 sites in California, 598 sites in Florida, 397 sites in North Carolina, 378 sites in Alabama, 270 sites in Louisiana, 219 sites in South Carolina, and 144 sites in Mississippi, that have historically been subject to natural disasters, such as high winds, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and severe weather. There can be no assurance that the amount of insurance obtained will be sufficient to cover damages caused by any event, or that such insurance will be commercially available in the future. A tower accident for which we do not have adequate insurance, or for which we have no insurance, or a large amount of damage to a group of towers, could decrease the value of our communications sites, result in the loss of revenues while the tower is out of service and also require us to make unanticipated expenditures in order to repair the damages caused by any event. In addition, changes in laws could impact our ability to repair or replace damaged towers. 30 In addition, any of these events or other unanticipated problems at one or more of the sites could interrupt tenants' ability to provide their services from the sites. This could damage our reputation, making it difficult to attract new tenants and causing existing tenants to terminate their leases, which in turn would reduce our revenues. If radio frequency emissions from our towers or other equipment used in our tenants' businesses are demonstrated, or perceived, to cause negative health effects, our business and revenues may be harmed. The safety guidelines for radio frequency emissions from our sites require us to undertake safety measures to protect workers whose activities bring them into proximity with the emitters and to restrict access to our sites by others. If radio frequency emissions from our sites or other equipment used in our tenants' businesses are found, or perceived, to be harmful, we and our customers could face fines imposed by the FCC, private lawsuits claiming damages from these emissions, and increased opposition to our development of new towers. Demand for wireless services and new towers, and thus our business and revenues, may be harmed. Although we have not been subject to any personal injury claims relating to radio frequency emissions, we cannot assure you that these claims will not arise in the future or that they will not negatively impact our business. The terms of our mortgage loans, revolving credit agreement, and Sprint Transaction master leases may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our existing mortgage loans and revolving credit agreement contain, and any future indebtedness of ours or of any of our subsidiaries would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and/or certain of our subsidiaries, including restrictions on our or our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, or additional unsecured debt without rating agency approval; • issue stock; • create liens; • make investments, loans and advances; • engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • change the nature of our business; • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into certain merger or consolidation transactions; and • pay dividends. Our December 2004 and February 2006 mortgage loans contain covenants requiring excess cash flows from the borrowers to be trapped in reserve accounts if the debt service coverage ratio falls to 1.30 times or lower for the December 2004 mortgage loan and 1.35 times or lower for the February 2006 mortgage loan as of the end of any calendar quarter. Debt service coverage ratio is defined as the preceding 12 months of net cash flow of the borrowers, as defined in the mortgage loans, divided by the amount of interest payments required under the mortgage loans over the next 12 months. Net cash flow, as defined in the mortgage loans, is approximately equal to gross margin minus capital expenditures made for the purpose of maintaining our sites, minus a management fee equal to 10.0% of revenues for the December 2004 mortgage loan and 7.5% of revenues for the February 2006 mortgage loan. The funds in the respective reserve account will not be released to us until the debt service coverage ratio exceeds 1.30 times for the December 2004 mortgage loan and 1.35 times or lower for the February 2006 mortgage loan for two consecutive calendar quarters. If the debt service coverage ratio falls below 1.15 times for the December 2004 mortgage loan and 1.20 times for the February 2006 mortgage loan as of the end of any calendar quarter, then all funds on deposit in the respective reserve account along with future excess cash 31 flows will be applied to prepay the respective mortgage loan along with applicable prepayment penalties. Failure to maintain the debt service coverage ratio above 1.30 times for the December 2004 mortgage loan and 1.35 times or lower for the February 2006 mortgage loan would adversely affect impact our ability to pay our indebtedness other than the mortgage loans, pay dividends and to operate our business. Any significant decline in our revenues could have an adverse impact on our net cash flow and our debt service coverage ratios. Although we currently have no borrowings outstanding under our $15.0 million revolving credit agreement, which we refer to as the revolving credit agreement, a failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in the revolving credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business, complete acquisitions and manage our operations. In the event of any default under our revolving credit agreement, including pursuant to a change in control of us, the lenders under the facility will not be required to lend us any additional amounts. Our lenders also could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under one of our credit facilities were to be accelerated, and we are not able to make the required cash payments, our lenders will have the option of foreclosing on any of the collateral pledged as security for the loan. The revolving credit agreement is guaranteed by us, Global Signal GP, LLC and certain subsidiaries of Global Signal Operating Partnership L.P., or Global Signal OP. It is secured by a pledge of Global Signal OP's assets, including a pledge of 65% of its interest in our United Kingdom subsidiary, 100% of its interest in certain other domestic subsidiaries, a pledge by us and Global Signal GP, LLC of our interests in Global Signal OP and a pledge by us of 65% of our interest in our Canadian subsidiary. As of December 31, 2005, the pledged interests in the United Kingdom and Canadian subsidiaries collectively constituted less than 1% of our total assets' book value. In addition, the revolving credit agreement provides that it is an event of default if certain of our present larger shareholders or their affiliates cease to collectively own or control, in certain limited circumstances, at least 51% of the voting interest in our capital stock (other than as a result of an issuance of capital stock by us, in which case such percentage shall be reduced to 40%). However, we have a 30-day grace period to repay the loans or otherwise cure the default if any such change in ownership results from (1) a margin call under the Credit Agreements secured by the shares of our common stock held by certain affiliates of Fortress or (2) from a sale by such shareholders of shares of our common stock (unless any such sale causes such ownership percentage to fall below 40%, in which case there would be an immediate event of default). In addition, it is an event of default if, within any 12 month period, a majority of the members of the board of directors cease to be those persons who were directors as of the first day of that period, or persons whose nomination or election was approved by the board members as of the first day of that period (excluding in the latter case any person whose initial nomination or assumption occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than board of directors). It is also an event of default under the revolving credit agreement if, at any time, Wesley R. Edens, or a replacement who is acceptable to our lenders, ceases to be Chairman of our board of directors, unless a replacement Chairman is appointed, or, if a replacement Chairman has not been appointed, all of the obligations under the revolving credit agreement or the acquisition credit facility have been paid in full, within 30 days. Under both the December 2004 mortgage loan and the February 2006 mortgage loan, if an event of default occurs, the lenders will have the option to foreclose on any of the collateral pledged as security for the respective mortgage loan. The mortgage loans are secured by (1) mortgage liens on our interests (fee, leasehold or easement) in a significant portion of our communications sites, (2) a security interest in substantially all of Pinnacle Towers LLC and its subsidiaries', and Pinnacle Towers Acquisition Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries', and Global Signal Acquisitions and Global Signal Acquisitions II's personal property and fixtures, including our rights under substantially all of our site management agreements, tenant leases (excluding tenant leases for sites referred to in (1) above) and management agreements with GS Services and (3) a pledge of certain of our subsidiaries' capital stock (or equivalent equity interests) (including a pledge of the membership interests of Pinnacle Towers Acquisition Holdings LLC, from its 32 direct parent, Global Signal Holdings III LLC, and a pledge of the membership interest of Global Signal Acquisitions II LLC, Global Signal Acquisition LLC, and Pinnacle Towers LLC from its direct parent, Global Signal Holdings V LLC). There can be no assurance that the assets pledged to secure payment of this indebtedness would be sufficient to repay this indebtedness in full. Our failure to comply with the covenants or obligations in a Sprint Transaction ground lease, including our obligation to timely pay ground lease rent, could result in an event of default under the Sprint Transaction master leases. Subject to arbitration and cure rights, in the event of an uncured default under a Sprint Transaction ground lease, the Sprint Transaction entity lessors may terminate the master lease as to the applicable ground lease site. In the event of an uncured default with respect to more than 20% of the sites within any rolling five-year period, the Sprint Transaction entity lessors will have the right to terminate the master leases in their entirety under certain circumstances. If the Sprint Transaction entity lessors terminate the master lease with respect to all of, or a significant number of, tower sites, our results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends could be materially adversely affected. Our Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman of the Board has management responsibilities with other companies and may not be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations. Our Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman of the Board, Wesley R. Edens, is also the Chairman of the Management Committee of Fortress Investment Group LLC, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Newcastle Investment Corp., a publicly-traded real estate securities business, the Chairman of the Board of Brookdale Senior Living Inc., a publicly-traded senior living facilities business, and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Eurocastle Investment Limited, a publicly-traded real estate securities business, listed on the London Stock Exchange. Mr. Edens also serves on the boards of directors of Green Tree Inc., Italfondiario S.P.A. and Mapeley LTD. As Chairman of the Management Committee of Fortress Investment Group, he manages and invests in other real estate related investment vehicles. As a result, he may not be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations. Risks Relating to Our REIT Status Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduce cash available for dividends. We intend to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the ‘‘IRS’’) as to our REIT status, we received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, or Skadden Arps, with respect to our qualification as a REIT. Shareholders should be aware, however, that opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or any court. The opinion of Skadden Arps represents only the view of our counsel based on our counsel's review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us, including representations relating to the values of our assets, the sources of our income, and the nature, construction, character and intended use of our properties. We asked Skadden Arps to assume for purposes of its opinion that any prior legal opinions we received to the effect that we were taxable as a REIT are correct. The opinion of Skadden Arps is expressed as of the date issued, and does not cover subsequent periods. The opinions of counsel impose no obligation on them to advise us or the holders of our common stock of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed, or of any subsequent change in applicable law. Furthermore, both the validity of the tax opinions and our continued qualification as a REIT depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which will not be monitored by tax counsel. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and 33 distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our common stock. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. See ‘‘Federal Income Tax Considerations’’ for a discussion of material federal income tax consequences relating to us and our common stock. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates under tax legislation enacted in 2003. Tax legislation enacted in 2003 reduces the maximum tax rate for dividends payable to individuals from 38.6% to 15.0% through 2008. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. In addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the newly favorable tax treatment given to corporate dividends, which could affect the value of our real estate assets negatively. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code for REITS. However, differences between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Internal Revenue Code. Certain types of assets generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash. Such assets include rental real estate that has been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to: (1) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (2) borrow on unfavorable terms or (3) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, in order to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund our operations. Our mortgage loans contain covenants providing for excess cash flows from the borrowers to be trapped in reserve accounts if our debt service coverage ratio for those mortgage loans falls to 1.30 times or lower for the December 2004 mortgage loan and 1.35 times or lower for the February 2006 mortgage loan. If our debt service coverage ratio were to fall to these levels and we had taxable income, as defined by tax regulations, our ability to distribute 90% of our taxable income, and hence our REIT status, could be jeopardized. The stock ownership limits imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for REITs and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may inhibit market activity in our stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first year. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation states that, unless exempted by our board of directors, no person, other than certain of our existing stockholders and subsequent owners of their stock, may own more than 9.9% of the aggregate value of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock. Our board may grant such an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 34 Risks Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Investor Agreement, Fortress Pinnacle Acquisition LLC and its affiliates, Greenhill Capital Partners, L.P. and its related partnerships, or Greenhill, and Abrams Capital Partners II, L.P. and its related partnerships have the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock, including shares to be issued pursuant to the Investment Agreement, under the Securities Act for sale into the public markets. We filed registration statements registering their shares on June 3, 2005, and December 19, 2005. In addition, following the completion of our initial public offering, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering an aggregate of 6,476,911 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock incentive programs. Subject to the exercise of issued and outstanding options and vesting of restricted shares and deferred shares, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 are available for sale into the public markets. The market price of our stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our largest shareholders. On December 9, 2005, Fortress, our largest stockholder, informed us of the following: Affiliates of Fortress Holdings have replaced the credit agreement of one such affiliate, FRIT PINN LLC (‘‘FRIT PINN’’), dated as of December 21, 2004, with Bank of America, N.A., Morgan Stanley Asset Funding Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, pursuant to which FRIT PINN had pledged to the lenders a total of 19,162,248 shares of our common stock owned by FRIT PINN. The affiliates have replaced this credit agreement by entering into credit agreements, dated as of December 9, 2005, with Deutsche Bank AG London Branch and the other lenders party thereto. Pursuant to these new credit agreements, the affiliates have borrowed an aggregate of approximately $692.7 million from the lenders thereunder, and this amount has been secured by, among other things, a pledge by the affiliates and other affiliates of Fortress Holdings of a total of 24,365,207 shares of our common stock owned by such affiliates (including a pledge by FRIT PINN of the 19,162,248 shares it had formerly pledged as collateral under the previous credit agreement). The 24,365,207 shares of common stock represent approximately 36% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005. The credit agreements contain customary default provisions and also require prepayment of a portion of the borrowings by the affiliates in the event the trading price of our common stock decreases below certain specified levels. In the event of a default under the credit agreements by the affiliates, the lenders thereunder may foreclose upon any and all shares of our common stock pledged to them. A shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No 333-125577) was filed with the SEC in June 2005 and another shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-130466) was filed with the SEC in December 2005, which together covers these pledged shares. We are not a party to the Fortress credit agreements, have not made any representations or covenants, and have no obligations thereunder. Mr. Wesley Edens, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, owns an interest in Fortress and is the Chairman of its Management Committee. In addition, on February 16, 2005, Greenhill, our second largest stockholder, informed us of the following: An affiliate of Greenhill Capital Partners LLC entered into a credit agreement, dated as of February 16, 2005, with Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital, Inc. as Administrative Agent and certain lenders. Pursuant to the credit agreement, the affiliate has borrowed $70.0 million from the lenders thereunder and this amount has been secured by, among other things, a pledge by the affiliate of a total of 8,383,234 shares of our common stock owned by such affiliate, representing approximately 12% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005. The Greenhill credit agreement contains customary default provisions and also requires prepayment of a portion of the borrowings by the affiliate in the event the trading price of our common stock decreases 35 below $15.65 and prepayment in full at prices below certain other lower specified levels. In the event of a default under the credit agreement by the affiliate, the lenders thereunder may foreclose upon and sell any and all shares of common stock pledged to them. The shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-125577), discussed above, covers these 8,383,234 pledged shares. On February 16, 2006, we received a request from Greenhill to file a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 as soon as reasonably practicable to permit the registration of the sale of up to 10,382,978 shares of common stock that Greenhill or certain of its affiliates expects to pledge a collateral in connection with an anticipated credit agreement with Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc. as lender. We intend to prepare and file the Form S-3 later in March 2006. This lender will require, as condition to the closing of the credit facilities, that the shelf registration statement be effective to permit the lender to sell the shares in the event the lender forecloses on the pledged shares upon an event of default. The 10,382,978 shares to be pledged under this credit agreement and to be covered by this Form S-3 would include the 8,383,234 shares currently pledged by an affiliate of Greenhill and currently covered by another Form S-3 (No. 333-125577), as discussed above. After the new Form S-3 covering 10,382,978 shares becomes effective and the 8,383,234 shares are pledged under the new Greenhill credit agreement, the prior Form S-3 (No. 333-125577) will no longer cover those 8,383,234 shares. We are not a party to the Greenhill credit agreement nor will we be a party to the proposed new Greenhill credit agreement, and we have no obligations thereunder. Mr. Robert H. Niehaus, the Vice Chairman of our board of directors, owns an interest in the private equity funds managed by Greenhill Capital LLC and is the Chairman of Greenhill Capital LLC, which acts as the general partner of the manager of the borrower and of one of our principal stockholders, Greenhill Capital Partners, L.P. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other stockholdings. As of December 31, 2005, we had an aggregate of 75,006,355 shares of common stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for issuance under our stock incentive programs, option plans or under outstanding warrants or options. We intend to continue to actively pursue strategic acquisitions of communications towers and other communications sites. We may pay for such acquisitions, at least partly, through the issuance of partnership units in our operating partnership that may be redeemed for shares of our common stock, or by the issuance of additional equity. Any shares issued in connection with our acquisitions, including the issuance of common stock upon the redemption of operating partnership units, the exercise of outstanding warrants or stock options or otherwise, would dilute the percentage ownership held by the investors who purchase our shares in any offering of common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, which could negatively affect us and the holders of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • a decrease in the demand for our communications sites; • a decrease in the wireless telephony service providers subscriber growth rate or the growth in the wireless minutes used by subscribers; • the economies, real estate markets and communications industry in the regions where our sites are located; • consolidation in the wireless industry; • the creditworthiness of our tenants; and • fluctuations in interest rates. In addition, our financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Any volatility of, or a significant decrease in, the market price of our common stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using our common stock as consideration. In addition, the U.S. securities 36 markets, and telecommunications stocks in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Further, if we were to be the object of securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in our common stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial expenses and diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results. In addition, if we decide to settle any class action litigation against us, our decision to settle may not necessarily be related to the merits of the claim. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and revolving credit agreement could have effects that conflict with the interests of our stockholders. Your ability to influence corporate matters may be limited because a small number of stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult or less beneficial for a third party to acquire control of us, or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to you. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and could reduce the market value of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions include: • a staggered board of directors; • removal of directors only for cause, by 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; • blank-check preferred stock; • a provision denying stockholders the ability to call special meetings with the exception of Fortress FRIT PINN LLC, Fortress Pinnacle Investment Fund LLC, Greenhill Capital Partners, L.P. and their respective affiliates, so long as they collectively beneficially own at least 50% of our issued and outstanding common stock; • our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that Global Signal has opted out of the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations; and • advance notice requirements by stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings. In addition, the revolving credit agreement provides that it is an event of default if certain of our present larger shareholders or their affiliates cease to collectively own or control, in certain limited circumstances, at least 51% of the voting interest in our capital stock (other than as a result of an issuance of capital stock by us, in which case such percentage shall be reduced to 40%). However, we have a 30-day grace period to repay the loans or otherwise cure the default if any such change in ownership results from (1) a margin call under the Credit Agreements secured by the shares of our common stock held by certain affiliates of Fortress or (2) from a sale by such shareholders of shares of our common stock (unless any such sale causes such ownership percentage to fall below 40%, in which case there would be an immediate event of default). In addition, it is an event of default if, within any 12 month period, a majority of the members of the board of directors cease to be those persons who were directors as of the first day of that period, or persons whose nomination or election was approved by the board members as of the first day of that period (excluding in the latter case any person whose initial nomination or assumption occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than board of directors). 37 It is also an event of default under the revolving credit agreement if, at any time, Wesley R. Edens, or a replacement who is acceptable to our lenders, ceases to be Chairman of our board of directors, unless a replacement Chairman is appointed, or, if a replacement Chairman has not been appointed, all of the obligations under the revolving credit agreement have been paid in full, within 30 days. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level, there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future, and our ability to maintain our current dividend level depends both on our cash flows from existing operations and our ability to invest our capital to achieve targeted returns. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level, and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report filed on Form 10-K. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our operating cash flow, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. Our ability to continue to pay dividends at current levels will depend, among other things, on our ability to invest any capital raised in any offering, at returns similar to the acquisitions we have closed to date. Global Signal Inc. is a holding company with no material direct operations. Global Signal Inc. is a holding company with no material direct operations. Its principal assets are the equity interests it holds in its operating subsidiaries. In addition, we own substantially all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations through Global Signal OP. As a result, Global Signal Inc. is dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries and from Global Signal OP to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations and pay dividends. Global Signal Inc.'s subsidiaries and Global Signal OP are legally distinct from Global Signal Inc. and have no obligation to make funds available to it. Your ability to influence corporate matters may be limited because a small number of stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, Fortress and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 31,047,879 shares, or 44.8%, of our common stock, Greenhill and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 10,543,978 shares, or 15.3%, of our common stock and Abrams Capital, LLC and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 8,707,241 shares, or 12.7% of our common stock. Three of our directors are affiliated with these stockholders. As a result, Fortress, Greenhill, and Abrams Capital, LLC and their respective affiliates could exert significant influence over our management and policies, and may have interests that are different from yours, and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing, discouraging or deferring a change of control, which could depress the market price of our common stock. A decrease in interest rates may result in a loss in our derivative transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may enter into anticipatory interest rate swaps from time to time to hedge the financing of communications site acquisitions. Because certain previously forecasted transactions did not occur as originally forecasted, we expect that for a period of time future anticipatory interest rate swaps will not qualify for hedge accounting and as such, any change in the market value of these swaps will be recorded in the results of operations. When interest rates decrease, the market value of these swaps being accounted for as derivatives decrease and as a result our earnings and financial condition are adversely affected. An increase in interest rates may result in an increase in our interest expense, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur floating rate indebtedness from time to time. In addition, any increase in interest rates also would increase the cost of any new fixed rate borrowings. Although we currently have no borrowings outstanding under our $15.0 million revolving credit agreement, the revolving credit agreement bears 38 interest at floating rates, based on either LIBOR or the bank's base rate. Accordingly, in the event that we incur borrowings under the revolving credit agreement, an increase in the bank's base rate or LIBOR could lead to an increase in our interest expense, or if we borrow money under other credit arrangements, we could incur higher expenses which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our fiduciary obligations to Global Signal OP may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. Our wholly owned subsidiary Global Signal GP LLC, as the managing general partner of Global Signal OP, may have fiduciary obligations in the future to the limited partners of Global Signal OP, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. Currently, Global Signal OP does not have any limited partners other than Global Signal Inc. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibits such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. For example, if Global Signal GP LLC has a need for liquidity, the timing of a distribution from Global Signal GP LLC to Global Signal Inc. may be a decision that presents such a conflict. The limited partners of Global Signal OP will have the right, beginning one year after they contribute property to the partnership, to cause Global Signal OP to redeem their limited partnership units for cash or shares of our common stock. As managing partner, Global Signal GP LLC's decision as to whether to exchange units for cash or shares of our common stock may conflict with the interest of our common stockholders. Future limited partners of Global Signal OP may exercise their voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. Currently, Global Signal OP does not have any limited partners other than Global Signal Inc. In the future, those persons holding units of Global Signal OP, as limited partners, have the right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the operating partnership agreement, and individually to approve certain amendments that would affect their rights, which voting rights may be exercised by future limited partners in a manner that conflicts with the interests of holders of our common stock. 39 