ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Statements made by us in written or oral form to various persons, including statements made in filings with the SEC that are not strictly historical facts, are “forward-looking” statements that are based on current expectations about our business and assumptions made by management. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that exist in our operations and business environment that could result in actual outcomes and results that are materially different than predicted. The following includes some, but not all, of those factors or uncertainties: Risks Relating to Our Business We are required to pay gathering fees to Atlas Pipeline pursuant to our contribution agreement with Atlas Energy equal to the difference between the gathering fee payable and the amount Atlas Energy receives from its investment partnerships for gathering services out of our own resources. Under our contribution agreement with Atlas Energy, we assumed Atlas Energy’s obligation to pay gathering fees to Atlas Pipeline pursuant to the master natural gas gathering agreement, and Atlas Energy agreed to pay us the gathering fees it receives from its investment partnerships and fees associated with production to its interest. The gathering fees payable to Atlas Pipeline generally exceed the amount Atlas Energy receives from its investment partnerships for gathering services. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, this excess amount was approximately $30.3 million. Page 29 Table of Contents We may be required to indemnify Atlas Energy for claims relating to activities before our contribution of assets to it. Pursuant to our contribution agreement with Atlas Energy, we will indemnify Atlas Energy until December 18, 2007 against certain potential environmental liabilities associated with the operation of the assets we contributed to it and occurring before December 18, 2006 and against claims for covered environmental liabilities made before December 18, 2010. Our obligation will not exceed $25.0 million, and we will not have any indemnification obligation until Atlas Energy’s losses exceed $500,000 in the aggregate, and then only to the extent such aggregate losses exceed $500,000. Additionally, we will indemnify Atlas Energy for losses attributable to title defects to the oil and gas property interests until December 18, 2009, and indefinitely for losses attributable to retained liabilities and income taxes attributable to pre-closing operations and the formation transactions. We could be liable for taxes in connection with our spin-off from Resource America. In connection with our initial public offering, Resource America and we entered into a tax matters agreement which governs our respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits. In general, under the tax matters agreement: • Resource America is responsible for any U.S. federal income taxes of the affiliated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes of which Resource America is the common parent. With respect to any periods beginning after our initial offering, we are responsible for any U.S. federal income taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries. • Resource America is responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes reportable on a consolidated, combined or unitary return that includes Resource America or one of its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or one of our subsidiaries, on the other hand. However, in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries are included in such a group for U.S. state or local income tax purposes for periods (or portions thereof) beginning after the date of the initial public offering, we are responsible for our portion of such income tax liability as if we and our subsidiaries had filed a separate tax return that included only us and our subsidiaries for that period (or portion of a period). • Resource America is responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes reportable on returns that include only Resource America and its subsidiaries (excluding us and our subsidiaries), and we are responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes filed on returns that include only us and our subsidiaries. • Resource America is responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes reportable on returns that include only Resource America and its subsidiaries (excluding us and our subsidiaries), and we are responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes filed on returns that include only us and our subsidiaries. Risks Related to Atlas Energy Atlas Energy may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the initial quarterly distribution, or IQD, to us following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. Atlas Energy may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the IQD of $0.42. Under the terms of its limited liability company agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by its operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that its board of directors establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders and the holders of the management incentive interests. The amount of cash it can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash it generate from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas and oil it produces; Page 30 Table of Contents • the price at which it sells its natural gas and oil; • the level of its operating costs; • its ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; • results of its hedging activities; • the level of its interest expense, which depends on the amount of its indebtedness and the interest payable on it; and • the level of its capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will receive from its distributions will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • its ability to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • timing and collectibility of receivables; • restrictions on distributions imposed by lenders; • the amount of its estimated maintenance capital expenditures; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by its board of directors for the proper conduct of its business. As a result of these factors, the amount of cash Atlas Energy distributes in any quarter to us may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be significantly less than the IQD amount that we expect to receive. If commodity prices decline significantly, Atlas Energy’s cash flow from operations will decline and it may have to lower its distributions or may not be able to pay distributions at all. Atlas Energy’s revenue, profitability and cash flow substantially depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The natural gas and oil markets are very volatile and a drop in prices can significantly affect its financial results and impede its growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices will have a significant impact on the value of its reserves and on its cash flow. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond its control, such as: • the level of the domestic and foreign supply and demand; Page 31 Table of Contents • the price and level of foreign imports; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions and fluctuating and seasonal demand; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the cost, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, the prices of natural gas and oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2006, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $11.43 per MMBtu to a low of $4.20 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $75.92 per Bbl to a low of $56.93 per Bbl. At December 31, 2006, Atlas Energy owned interests in 7,252 gross wells. Producers with higher rates of production than Atlas Energy’s are less sensitive to declining commodity prices due to the relatively fixed nature of well operating costs. Lower natural gas and oil prices may not only decrease Atlas Energy’s revenues, but also reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that it can produce economically, which would also decrease its revenues and cause it to shut in, and eventually plug and abandon, uneconomic wells. Page 32 Table of Contents Unless Atlas Energy replaces its reserves, its reserves and production will decline, which would reduce its cash flow from operations and impair its ability to make distributions to us. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Based on Atlas Energy’s December 31, 2006 reserve report, its average annual decline rate for proved developed producing reserves is approximately 12% during the first five years, approximately 7% in the next five years and less than 6% thereafter. Because total estimated proved reserves include proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2006, production will decline at this rate even if those proved undeveloped reserves are developed and the wells produce as expected. This rate of decline will change if production from Atlas Energy’s existing wells declines in a different manner than it has estimated and can change when it drills additional wells, makes acquisitions and under other circumstances. Thus, Atlas Energy’s future natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, its cash flow and income are highly dependent on its success in efficiently developing and exploiting its current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Atlas Energy’s ability to find and acquire additional recoverable reserves to replace current and future production at acceptable costs depends on its generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, principally its sponsored investment partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section. Atlas Energy’s estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of its reserves. Underground accumulations of natural gas and oil cannot be measured in an exact way. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Atlas Energy’s independent petroleum engineers prepare estimates of its proved reserves. Over time, its internal engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of its reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, it makes certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect its estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Atlas Energy’s PV-10 is calculated using natural gas prices that include its physical hedges but not its financial hedges. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which its reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas and oil it ultimately recover being different from its reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from Atlas Energy’s proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of its estimated natural gas reserves. Atlas Energy bases the estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from its natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices it receive for natural gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • the amount and timing of its capital expenditures; • supply of and demand for natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. Page 33 Table of Contents The timing of both its production and its incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor it uses when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with it or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any significant variance in its assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of PV-10, and its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, its reserves or PV-10 may be revised downward or upward based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for its production can reduce the estimated volumes of its reserves because the economic life of its wells could end sooner. Similarly, a decline in market prices for natural gas or oil may reduce its PV-10. Any of these negative effects on its reserves or PV-10 may decrease the value of our investment in it. Atlas Energy’s operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce its cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter it is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to us than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Atlas Energy will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain its capital asset base over the long term. For the twelve months ending December 31, 2007, we estimate these expenditures to be approximately $35.0 million. These maintenance capital expenditures may include the drilling and completion of additional wells to offset the production decline from its producing properties or additions to its inventory of unproved or proved reserves. These expenditures could increase as a result of: • changes in its reserves; • changes in natural gas prices; • changes in labor and drilling costs; • its ability to acquire, locate and produce reserves; • changes in leasehold acquisition costs; and • government regulations relating to safety and the environment. Atlas Energy’s significant maintenance capital expenditures will reduce the amount of cash it has available for distribution to us. In addition, its actual maintenance capital expenditures will vary from quarter to quarter. Its limited liability company agreement requires it to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and approval by its board of directors, including a majority of its conflicts committee, at least once a year. In years when its estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to us will be lower than if it deducted actual maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. If it underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, it may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed its previous estimates. Over time, if it does not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have available sufficient sources of financing and make sufficient expenditures to maintain its capital asset base, it will be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and may have to reduce its distributions. Page 34 Table of Contents Atlas Energy will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase its asset base. If it is unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, its ability to make cash distributions may be diminished. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. Atlas Energy intends to finance its future capital expenditures with capital raised through its sponsored investment partnerships, cash flow from operations and bank borrowings. If it is unable to obtain sufficient capital funds on satisfactory terms, it may be unable to increase or maintain our inventory of properties and reserve base, or be forced to curtail drilling or other activities. This would result in a decline in its revenues and its ability to increase cash distributions may be diminished. If it does not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, including with funds from third-party sources, it will be unable to expand its business operations and will be unable to raise the level of its future cash distributions. Changes in tax laws may impair Atlas Energy’s ability to obtain capital funds through investment partnerships. Under current federal tax laws, there are tax benefits to investing in investment partnerships such as those Atlas Energy sponsors, including deductions for intangible drilling costs and depletion deductions. Changes to federal tax law that reduce or eliminate these benefits may make investment in its investment partnerships less attractive and, thus, reduce its ability to obtain funding from this significant source of capital funds. A recent change to federal tax law that may affect it is the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, which reduced the maximum federal income tax rate on long-term capital gains and qualifying dividends to 15% through 2008. These changes may make investment in its investment partnerships relatively less attractive than investments in assets likely to yield capital gains or qualifying dividends. Atlas Energy’s credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants. A default under these provisions could cause all of its debt to be immediately due and restrict its payment of distributions to us. Atlas Energy’s revolving credit facility restricts its ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. Atlas Energy is also required to comply with specified financial covenants and ratios. Its ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from its operations and events or circumstances beyond its control. Atlas Energy’s failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the credit facility could result in a default, which could cause its existing indebtedness to be immediately due and restrict its payment of distributions to us. Atlas Energy’s future debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. Atlas Energy’s future indebtedness could have important consequences to it, including: • its ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in its credit arrangements will require it to meet financial tests that may affect its flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in its business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • Atlas Energy will need a substantial portion of its cash flow to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us; and • Atlas Energy’s debt level will make it more vulnerable than its competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in its business or the economy generally. Atlas Energy’s ability to service its indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond its control. If its operating results are not sufficient to service its current or future indebtedness, it will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. Atlas Energy may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. Page 35 Table of Contents Atlas Energy may not be able to continue to raise funds through its investment partnerships at the levels it has recently experienced, which may in turn restrict its ability to maintain its drilling activity at the levels recently experienced. Atlas Energy has sponsored limited and general partnerships to raise funds from investors to finance its development drilling activities. Accordingly, the amount of development activities it undertakes depends in large part upon its ability to obtain investor subscriptions to invest in these partnerships. During the past three fiscal years Atlas Energy has raised successively larger amounts of funds through these investment partnerships, raising $107.7 million in 2004, $148.7 million in 2005 and $218.5 million in 2006. In the future, it may not be successful in raising funds through these investment partnerships at the same levels it has recently experienced, and it also may not be successful in increasing the amount of funds it raises as it has done in recent years. Atlas Energy’s ability to raise funds through its investment partnerships depends in large part upon the perception of investors of their potential return on their investment and their tax benefits from investing in them, which perception is influenced significantly by its historical track record of generating returns and tax benefits to the investors in our existing partnerships. In the event that Atlas Energy’s investment partnerships do not achieve satisfactory returns on investment or the anticipated tax benefits, Atlas Energy may have difficulty in continuing to increase the amount of funds it raises through these partnerships or in maintaining the level of funds it has recently raised through these partnerships. In this event, it may need to obtain financing for its drilling activities on a less attractive basis than the financing it realizes through these partnerships or it may determine to reduce its drilling activity. Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, which may hinder Atlas Energy’s ability to acquire gas and oil properties and companies and to obtain capital, contract for drilling equipment and secure trained personnel. Atlas Energy operates in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and other natural gas and oil companies, attracting capital through its investment partnerships, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Atlas Energy will also compete with the exploration and production divisions of public utility companies for natural gas and oil property acquisitions. Atlas Energy’s competitors may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and drilling equipment and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than its financial or personnel resources permit. Moreover, its competitors for investment capital may have better track records in their programs, lower costs or better connections in the securities industry segment that markets oil and gas investment programs than it does. All of these challenges could make it more difficult for Atlas Energy to execute its growth strategy. Atlas Energy may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring leasehold acreage or prospective reserves or in raising additional capital. Furthermore, competition arises not only from numerous domestic and foreign sources of natural gas and oil but also from other industries that supply alternative sources of energy. Competition is intense for the acquisition of leases considered favorable for the development of natural gas and oil in commercial quantities. Product availability and price are the principal means of competition in selling oil and natural gas. Many of Atlas Energy’s competitors possess greater financial and other resources than it which may enable them to identify and acquire desirable properties and market their natural gas and oil production more effectively than it does. Atlas Energy’s business depends on the gathering and transportation facilities of Atlas Pipeline. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with its ability to market the natural gas it produces and could reduce its revenues and cash available for distribution to us. Atlas Pipeline gathers more than 90% of Atlas Energy’s current production. The marketability of its natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by Atlas Pipeline and other third parties. The amount of natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in circumstances such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance or excessive pressure or physical damage to the gathering or transportation system. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. Page 36 Table of Contents Atlas Energy depends on certain key customers for sales of its natural gas. To the extent these customers reduce the volumes of natural gas they purchase from it, its revenues and cash available for distribution to us could decline. Atlas Energy’s natural gas is sold under contracts with various purchasers. Under a natural gas supply agreement with Hess Corporation, which expires on March 31, 2009, Hess Corporation has a last right of refusal to buy all of the natural gas produced and delivered by Atlas Energy and its affiliates, including its investment partnerships. During the year ended December 31, 2006, total sales to Hess Corp accounted for 3% of our total revenues, respectively. To the extent Hess Corporation and Atlas Energy’s other key customers reduce the amount of natural gas they purchase from Atlas Energy, its revenues and cash available for distributions to us could temporarily decline in the event it is unable to sell to additional purchasers. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews could delay Atlas Energy’s operations and reduce its cash available for distribution to us. Higher natural gas and oil prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Over the past three years, we and other oil and natural gas companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict Atlas Energy’s ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations which it currently has planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce its revenues and cash available for distribution to us. Because Atlas Energy handles natural gas and oil, it may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of Atlas Energy’s wells and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. Drilling for and producing natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties. Atlas Energy’s drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that it will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, its drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • adverse weather conditions; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • title problems; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; Page 37 Table of Contents • formations with abnormal pressures; • injury or loss of life; • environmental accidents such as gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment or oil leaks, including groundwater contamination; • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay Atlas Energy’s receipt of drilling and production revenues, thereby reducing its earnings, and could reduce revenues in one or more of its investment partnerships, which may make it more difficult to finance its drilling operations through sponsorship of future partnerships. In addition, any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. Although Atlas Energy will maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from its operations, insurance against all operational risks is not available to it. Additionally, it may elect not to obtain insurance if it believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could reduce Atlas Energy’s results of operations and impair its ability to make distributions to us. Properties that Atlas Energy buys may not produce as projected and it may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. One of Atlas Energy’s growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of natural gas reserves. However, its reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when Atlas Energy inspects a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact Atlas Energy’s financial condition and results of operations. Even if Atlas Energy is able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. Hedging transactions may limit Atlas Energy’s potential gains or cause us to lose money. By removing the price volatility from a significant portion of its natural gas production, Atlas Energy has reduced, but not eliminated, the potential effects of changing natural gas prices on its cash flow from operations for those periods. Furthermore, while intended to help reduce the effects of volatile natural gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit its potential gains if natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. Under circumstances in which, among other things, production is substantially less than expected, the counterparties to its futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas prices, it may be exposed to the risk of financial loss. Page 38 Table of Contents Atlas Energy may be exposed to financial and other liabilities as the managing general partner in investment partnerships. Atlas Energy serves as the managing general partner of 92 investment partnerships and will be the managing general partner of new investment partnerships that it sponsors. As a general partner, it is contingently liable for the obligations of these partnerships to the extent that partnership assets or insurance proceeds are insufficient. Atlas Energy has agreed to indemnify each investor partner in its investment partnerships from any liability that exceeds such partner’s share of the investment partnership’s assets. Furthermore, investor partners in some of its investment partnerships have the right to present their interests for purchase by it, as managing general partner, up to 5% to 10% of the total limited partner interests in any calendar year. Atlas Energy’s revenues may decrease if investors in its investment partnerships do not receive a minimum return. Atlas Energy has agreed to subordinate up to 50% of its share of production revenues to specified returns to the investor partners in our investment partnerships, typically 10% per year for the first five years of distributions. Thus, Atlas Energy’s revenues from a particular partnership will decrease if it does not achieve the specified minimum return and its ability to make distributions to us may be impaired. Risks Related to Atlas Pipeline Holdings AHD’s only cash generating assets are its interests in APL, and its cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of APL to make distributions to its partners. The amounts of cash that APL generates may not be sufficient for it to pay distributions at the current or any other level of distribution. APL’s ability to make cash distributions depends primarily on its cash flow. Cash distributions do not depend directly on APL’s profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash distributions may be made during periods when APL records losses and may not be made during periods when APL records profits. The actual amounts of cash APL generates will depend upon numerous factors relating to its business which may be beyond its control, including: • the demand for and price of its natural gas and NGLs; • expiration of significant contracts; • the volume of natural gas APL transports; • continued development of wells for connection to APL’s gathering systems; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the expenses APL incurs in providing its gathering services; • the cost of acquisitions and capital improvements; • APL’s issuance of equity securities; • required principal and interest payments on APL’s debt; • fluctuations in working capital; • prevailing economic conditions; • fuel conservation measures; • alternate fuel requirements; • government regulation and taxation; and • technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. Page 39 Table of Contents In addition, the actual amount of cash that APL will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures it makes; • the sources of cash used to fund its acquisitions; • its debt service requirements and requirements to pay dividends on its outstanding preferred units, and restrictions on distributions contained in its current or future debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by us, as APL’s general partner, for the conduct of APL’s business. APL is unable to borrow under its credit facility to pay distributions of available cash to unitholders because such borrowings would not constitute “working capital borrowings” under its partnership agreement. Because APL will be unable to borrow money to pay distributions unless it establishes a facility that meets the definition contained in its partnership agreement, APL’s ability to pay a distribution in any quarter is solely dependent on its ability to generate sufficient operating surplus with respect to that quarter. APL’s debt levels and restrictions in AHD’s and APL’s credit facilities could limit AHD’s ability to make distributions to us. APL has a significant amount of debt. APL will need a substantial portion of its cash flow to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to its unitholders. If APL’s operating results are not sufficient to service its current or future indebtedness, it will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. APL may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. AHD’s and APL’s credit facilities contain covenants limiting their ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, engage in transactions with affiliates and make distributions to unitholders. AHD’s and APL’s credit facilities also contain covenants requiring APL and AHD to maintain certain financial ratios. In addition, AHD and APL are prohibited from making any distribution if such distribution would cause an event of default or otherwise violate a covenant under their respective credit facilities. In the future, AHD may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions at its current quarterly distribution level or to increase distributions. The source of AHD’s earnings and cash flow currently consists exclusively of cash distributions from APL. Therefore, the amount of distributions it is able to make to us may fluctuate based on the level of distributions APL makes to its partners. In addition, while AHD would expect to increase or decrease distributions to us if APL increases or decreases distributions to AHD, the timing and amount of such increased or decreased distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by APL to AHD. Page 40 Table of Contents AHD’s ability to distribute cash received from APL to us is limited by a number of factors, including: • interest expense and principal payments on any current or future indebtedness; • restrictions on distributions contained in any current or future debt agreements; • AHD’s general and administrative expenses, including expenses is incurs as a result of being a public company; • expenses of AHD’s subsidiaries other than APL, including tax liabilities of its corporate subsidiaries, if any; • reserves necessary for AHD to make the necessary capital contributions to maintain its 2.0% general partner interest in APL as required by its partnership agreement upon the issuance of additional partnership securities by APL; and • reserves AHD’s general partner believes prudent for it to maintain for the proper conduct of its business or to provide for future distributions. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to us will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond its control or the control of AHD’s general partner. A reduction in APL’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which AHD is currently entitled. AHD’s ownership of the incentive distribution rights in APL, through its ownership of equity interests in Atlas Pipeline GP, the holder of the incentive distribution rights, entitles it to receive its pro rata share of specified percentages of total cash distributions made by APL with respect to any particular quarter only in the event that APL distributes more than $0.42 per common unit for such quarter. As a result, the holders of APL’s common units have a priority over the holders of APL’s incentive distribution rights to the extent of cash distributions by APL up to and including $0.42 per common unit for any quarter. A decrease in the amount of distributions by APL to less than $0.60 per common unit per quarter would reduce Atlas Pipeline GP’s percentage of the incremental cash distributions above $0.52 per common unit per quarter from 48% to 23%. As a result, any such reduction in quarterly cash distributions from APL would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of all distributions that AHD receives based on its ownership interest in the incentive distribution rights in APL as compared to cash distributions it receives on its 2.0% general partner interest in APL and its APL common units. AHD’s ability to meet its financial needs may be adversely affected by its cash distribution policy and its lack of operational assets. AHD’s cash distribution policy, which is consistent with its partnership agreement, requires it to distribute all of its available cash quarterly. AHD’s only cash generating assets are partnership interests, including incentive distribution rights, in APL, and it currently has no independent operations separate from those of APL. Moreover, a reduction in APL’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions AHD receives. Given that its cash distribution policy is to distribute available cash and not retain it and that its only cash generating assets are partnership interests in APL, it may not have enough cash to meet its needs if any of the following events occur: • an increase in its operating expenses; • an increase in general and administrative expenses; • an increase in principal and interest payments on its outstanding debt; • an increase in working capital requirements; or • an increase in cash needs of APL or its subsidiaries that reduces APL’s distributions. Page 41 Table of Contents AHD’s cash distribution policy limits its ability to grow. Because AHD distributes all of its available cash, its growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. In fact, its growth initially will be completely dependent upon APL’s ability to increase its quarterly distribution per unit because currently its only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in APL, including incentive distribution rights. If AHD issues additional units or incurs debt to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that AHD will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. Consistent with the terms of its partnership agreement, APL distributes to its partners its available cash each quarter. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution, APL sets aside cash reserves, including reserves it believes prudent to maintain for the proper conduct of its business or to provide for future distributions. Additionally, it has relied upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and other debt and equity issuances, to fund its acquisition capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent APL does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to finance growth externally, its cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. In addition, to the extent APL issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional common units may increase the risk that APL will be unable to maintain or increase its per common unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that AHD has to distribute to us. The incurrence of additional debt to finance its growth strategy would result in increased interest expense to APL, which in turn may impact the available cash that AHD has to distribute to us. AHD is largely dependent on APL for its growth. As a result of the fiduciary obligations of APL’s general partner, which is AHD’s wholly-owned subsidiary, to the common unitholders of APL, AHD’s ability to pursue business opportunities independently will be limited. AHD currently intends to grow primarily through the growth of APL. While it are not precluded from pursuing business opportunities independently of APL, its subsidiary, as the general partner of APL, has fiduciary duties to APL unitholders which would make it difficult for it to engage in any business activity that is competitive with APL. Those fiduciary duties are applicable to AHD because it controls the general partner through its ability to elect all of its directors. While there may be circumstances in which these fiduciary duties may be satisfied while allowing AHD to pursue business opportunities independent of APL, we expect such opportunities to be limited. Accordingly, AHD may be unable to diversify its sources of revenue in order to increase cash distributions. APL’s common unitholders have the right to remove APL’s general partner with the approval of the holders of 66 2/3% of all units, which would cause AHD to lose its general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in APL and the ability to manage APL. AHD currently manages APL through Atlas Pipeline GP, APL’s general partner and its wholly-owned subsidiary. APL’s partnership agreement, however, gives common unitholders of APL the right to remove the general partner of APL upon the affirmative vote of holders of 66 2/3% of APL’s outstanding common units. If Atlas Pipeline GP were removed as general partner of APL, it would receive cash or common units in exchange for its 2.0% general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights and would lose its ability to manage APL. While the common units or cash AHD would receive are intended under the terms of APL’s partnership agreement to fully compensate it in the event such an exchange is required, the value of these common units or investments AHD makes with the cash over time may not be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights had it retained them. If APL’s general partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of APL, its value, and therefore the value of AHD’s common units, could decline. The general partner of APL may make expenditures on behalf of APL for which it will seek reimbursement from APL. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, APL’s general partner, in its capacity, has unlimited liability for the obligations of APL, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of APL that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent Atlas Pipeline GP incurs obligations on behalf of APL, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by APL. If APL is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify its general partner, Atlas Pipeline GP may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its value and therefore the value of AHD’s common units. Page 42 Table of Contents APL may issue additional limited partner units, which may increase the risk of it not having sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. APL has wide discretion to issue additional limited partner units, including units that rank senior to its common units and the incentive distribution rights as to quarterly cash distributions, on the terms and conditions established by its general partner. The payment of distributions on additional APL common units may increase the risk of APL being unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. To the extent new APL limited partner units are senior to the APL common units and the incentive distribution rights, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on the common units and the incentive distribution rights. Neither the common units nor the incentive distribution rights are entitled to any arrearages from prior quarters. AHD may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests without the consent of its unitholders, which will dilute existing limited partners’ ownership interest in its and may increase the risk that AHD will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. AHD may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without our approval on terms and conditions established by its general partner at any time. The issuance by AHD of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • AHD’s unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in it will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; and • the market price of the common units may decline. If in the future AHD ceases to manage and control APL through its ownership of its general partner interests, it may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If AHD ceases to manage and control APL and is deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify its organizational structure or its contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit its ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from its affiliates, restrict its ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require it to add additional directors who are independent of it or its affiliates. Risks Relating to APL’s Business APL’s profitability is affected by the volatility of prices for natural gas and NGL products. APL derives a majority of its revenues from percentage-of-proceeds and keep-whole contracts. As a result, APL’s income depends to a significant extent upon the prices at which the natural gas it transports, treats or processes and the natural gas liquids, or NGLs, it produces are sold. A 10% change in the average price of NGLs, natural gas and condensate APL processes and sells would result in a change to our consolidated income for the year ended December 31, 2007, excluding the effect of minority interests in APL’s net income, of approximately $5.3 million. Additionally, changes in natural gas prices may indirectly impact APL’s profitability since prices can influence drilling activity and well operations and thus the volume of gas APL gathers and processes. Historically, the price of both natural gas and NGLs has been subject to significant volatility in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for natural gas and NGL products, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond APL’s control. We expect this volatility to continue. This volatility may cause APL’s gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. APL’s hedging strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of the throughput volumes subject to percentage-of-proceeds contracts. Page 43 Table of Contents The amount of natural gas APL transports will decline over time unless it is able to attract new wells to connect to its gathering systems. Production of natural gas from a well generally declines over time until the well can no longer economically produce natural gas and is plugged and abandoned. Failure to connect new wells to APL’s gathering systems could, therefore, result in the amount of natural gas APL transports reducing substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause it to abandon one or more of its gathering systems and, possibly, cease operations. The primary factors affecting APL’s ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to its gathering systems include APL’s success in contracting for existing wells that are not committed to other systems, the level of drilling activity near its gathering systems and, in the Mid-Continent region, APL’s ability to attract natural gas producers away from its competitors’ gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. APL has no control over the level of drilling activity in its service areas, the amount of reserves underlying wells that connect to its systems and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, APL has no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. Because APL’s operating costs are fixed to a significant degree, a reduction in the natural gas volumes it transports or processes would result in a reduction in its gross margin and cash flows. The success of APL’s Appalachian operations depends upon Atlas Energy’s ability to drill and complete commercial producing wells. Substantially all of the wells APL connects to its gathering systems in its Appalachian service area are drilled and operated by Atlas Energy for drilling investment partnerships sponsored by it. As a result, APL’s Appalachian operations depend principally upon the success of Atlas Energy in sponsoring drilling investment partnerships and completing wells for these partnerships. Atlas Energy operates in a highly competitive environment for acquiring undeveloped leasehold acreage and attracting capital. Atlas Energy may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring undeveloped leasehold acreage or in raising additional capital through its drilling investment partnerships. Furthermore, Atlas Energy is not required to connect wells for which it is not the operator to APL’s gathering systems. If Atlas Energy cannot or does not continue to sponsor drilling investment partnerships, if the amount of money raised by those partnerships decreases, or if the number of wells actually drilled and completed as commercially producing wells decreases, the amount of natural gas transported by APL’s Appalachian gathering systems would substantially decrease and could, upon exhaustion of the wells currently connected to APL’s gathering systems, cause APL to abandon one or more of its Appalachian gathering systems, thereby materially reducing APL’s gross margin and cash flows. The success of APL’s Mid-Continent operations depends upon its ability to continually find and contract for new sources of natural gas supply from unrelated third parties. Unlike APL’s Appalachian operations, none of the drillers or operators in its Mid-Continent service area is an affiliate of ours. Moreover, APL’s agreements with most of the drillers and operators with which its Mid-Continent operations do business do not require them to dedicate significant amounts of undeveloped acreage to APL’s systems. As a result, APL does not have assured sources to provide it with new wells to connect to its Mid Continent gathering systems. Failure to connect new wells to APL’s Mid-Continent operations will, as described in “— The amount of natural gas APL transports will decline over time unless it is able to attract new wells to connect to its gathering systems,” above, reduce APL’s gross margin and cash flows. APL’s Mid-Continent operations currently depend on certain key producers for their supply of natural gas; the loss of any of these key producers could reduce its revenues. During 2006, Chesapeake Energy Corporation, Kaiser-Francis Oil Company, Burlington Resources Inc., St. Mary Land and Exploration Company and Sanguine Gas Exploration, LLC supplied APL’s Mid-Continent systems with a majority of their natural gas supply. If these producers reduce the volumes of natural gas that they supply to APL, APL’s gross margin and cash flows would be reduced unless it obtains comparable supplies of natural gas from other producers. Page 44 Table of Contents The curtailment of operations at, or closure of, any of APL’s processing plants could harm its business. APL currently has three processing plants. If operations at any of APL’s plants were to be curtailed, or closed, whether due to accident, natural catastrophe, environmental regulation or for any other reason, APL’s ability to process natural gas from the relevant gathering system and, as a result, its ability to extract and sell NGLs, would be harmed. If this curtailment or stoppage were to extend for more than a short period, APL’s gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. APL may face increased competition in the future in its Mid-Continent service areas. APL’s Mid-Continent operations may face competition for well connections. Duke Energy Field Services, LLC, ONEOK, Inc., Carrera Gas Company, Cimmarron Transportation, LLC and Enogex, Inc. operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in APL’s Velma service area. In APL’s Elk City and Sweetwater service area, ONEOK Field Services, Eagle Rock Midstream Resources, L.P., Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P., CenterPoint Energy, Inc. and Enogex Inc. operate competing gathering systems and processing plants. CenterPoint Energy, Inc.’s interstate system is the nearest direct competitor to APL’s Ozark Gas Transmission system. CenterPoint and Enogex Inc. operate competing gathering systems in Ozark Gas Gathering’s service area. Some of APL’s competitors have greater financial and other resources than APL does. If these companies become more active in APL’s Mid-Continent service areas, it may not be able to compete successfully with them in securing new well connections or retaining current well connections. If APL does not compete successfully, the amount of natural gas APL transports, processes and treats will decrease, reducing its gross margin and cash flows. The amount of natural gas APL transports, treats or processes may be reduced if the public utility and interstate pipelines to which APL delivers gas cannot or will not accept the gas. APL’s gathering systems principally serve as intermediate transportation facilities between sales lines from wells connected to APL’s systems and the public utility or interstate pipelines to which APL delivers natural gas. If one or more of these pipelines has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise does not accept the natural gas APL transports, and APL cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines, local distribution companies or end users, the amount of natural gas APL transports may be reduced. Since APL’s revenues depend upon the volumes of natural gas it transports, this could result in a material reduction in APL’s gross margin and cash flows. Before acquiring its Velma and Elk City operations, APL had no previous experience either in its Mid-Continent service area or in operating natural gas processing plants. APL’s Mid-Continent gathering systems are located principally in Oklahoma and northern Texas, areas in which it has been involved only since July 2004 as a result of the Velma acquisition and, subsequently, Elk City acquisition in April 2005 and the acquisition of the initial 75% ownership interest in NOARK in October 2005. In addition, as a result of these acquisitions, APL began to operate natural gas processing plants, a business in which it had no prior operating experience. APL depends upon the experience, knowledge and business relationships that have been developed by the senior management of its Mid-Continent operations to operate successfully in the region. The loss of the services of one or more members of APL’s Mid-Continent senior management, in particular, Robert R. Firth, President, and David D. Hall, Chief Financial Officer, could limit its growth or ability to maintain its current level of operations in the Mid-Continent region. Due to APL’s lack of asset diversification, negative developments in its operations would reduce its ability to make distributions to its common unitholders. APL relies exclusively on the revenues generated from its transportation, gathering and processing operations, and as a result, its financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to APL’s lack of asset-type diversification, a negative development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if APL maintained more diverse assets. Page 45 Table of Contents APL’s construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could impair its results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways APL may grow its business is through the construction of new assets, such as the Sweetwater plant. The construction of additions or modifications to its existing systems and facilities, and the construction of new assets, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond APL’s control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. Any projects APL undertakes may not be completed on schedule at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, APL’s revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if APL expands a gathering system, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, APL may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which growth does not materialize. Since APL is not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas reserves, it often does not have access to estimates of potential reserves in an area before constructing facilities in the area. To the extent APL relies on estimates of future production in its decision to construct additions to its systems, the estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve APL’s expected investment return, which could impair its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, APL’s actual revenues from a project could materially differ from expectations as a result of the price of natural gas, the NGL content of the natural gas processed and other economic factors described in this section. APL recently completed construction of its Sweetwater natural gas processing plant, from which it expects to generate additional incremental cash flow. APL also continues to expand the natural gas gathering system surrounding Sweetwater in order to maximize its plant operating capacity. In addition to the risks discussed above, expected incremental revenue from the Sweetwater natural gas processing plant could be reduced or delayed due to the following reasons: • difficulties in obtaining equity or debt financing for additional construction and operating costs; • difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory or third party consents; • additional construction and operating costs exceeding budget estimates; • revenue being less than expected due to lower commodity prices or lower demand; • difficulties in obtaining consistent supplies of natural gas; and • terms in operating agreements that are not favorable to APL. If APL is unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then it may be unable to fully execute its growth strategy and its cash flows could be reduced. The construction of additions to APL’s existing gathering assets may require it to obtain new rights-of-way before constructing new pipelines. APL may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to its existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for APL to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then its cash flows could be reduced. Regulation of APL’s gathering operations could increase its operating costs, decrease its revenues, or both. Currently APL’s gathering of natural gas from wells is exempt from regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938. However, the implementation of new laws or policies, or interpretations of existing laws, could subject APL to regulation by FERC under the Natural Gas Act. APL expects that any such regulation would increase its costs, decrease its gross margin and cash flows, or both. Page 46 Table of Contents FERC regulation will still affect APL’s business and the market for its products. FERC’s policies and practices affect a range of APL’s natural gas pipeline activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion, which indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot ensure that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. Other state and local regulations will also affect APL’s business. Matters subject to regulation include rates, service and safety. APL’s gathering lines are subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in Texas and Oklahoma. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict APL’s right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it contracts to purchase or transports natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. Texas and Oklahoma have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities, which allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and, in Texas and Oklahoma, with respect to rate discrimination. Should a complaint be filed or regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission or Oklahoma Corporation Commission become more active, APL’s revenues could decrease. Increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of the Ozark Transmission pipeline will require it to spend additional money to comply with these requirements. Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. For example, federal legislation signed into law in December 2002 includes guidelines for the U.S. Department of Transportation and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. Compliance with existing and recently enacted regulations requires significant expenditures. Additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future, such as U.S. Department of Transportation implementation of additional hydrostatic testing requirements, could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to FERC rate-making policies that could have an adverse impact on APL’s ability to establish rates that would allow it to recover the full cost of operating the pipeline. Rate-making policies by FERC could affect Ozark Gas Transmission’s ability to establish rates, or to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that have been determined not to be just and reasonable by FERC. The rates, terms and conditions of service provided by natural gas companies are required to be on file with FERC in FERC-approved tariffs. Pursuant to FERC’s jurisdiction over rates, existing rates may be challenged by complaint and proposed rate increases may be challenged by protest. We cannot ensure that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas capacity and transportation facilities. Any successful complaint or protest against Ozark Gas Transmission’s rates could reduce APL’s revenues associated with providing transmission services. We cannot ensure you that APL will be able to recover all of Ozark Gas Transmission’s costs through existing or future rates. Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to regulation by FERC in addition to FERC rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services. FERC’s regulatory authority also extends to: • operating terms and conditions of service; Page 47 Table of Contents • the types of services Ozark Gas Transmission’s may offer to its customers; • construction of new facilities; • acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; • accounts and records; and • relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. FERC action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can impair Ozark Gas Transmission’s ability to compete for business, the costs it incurs in its operations, the construction of new facilities or its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipeline. For example, the development of uniform interstate gas quality standards by FERC could create two distinct markets for natural gas––an interstate market subject to uniform minimum quality standards and an intrastate market with no uniform minimum quality standards. Such a bifurcation of markets could make it difficult for APL’s pipelines to compete in both markets or to attract certain gas supplies away from the intrastate market. The time FERC takes to approve the construction of new facilities could raise the costs of APL’s projects to the point where they are no longer economic. FERC has authority to review pipeline contracts. If FERC determines that a term of any such contract deviates in a material manner from a pipeline’s tariff, FERC typically will order the pipeline to remove the term from the contract and execute and refile a new contract with FERC or, alternatively, to amend its tariff to include the deviating term, thereby offering it to all shippers. If FERC audits a pipeline’s contracts and finds deviations that appear to be unduly discriminatory, FERC could conduct a formal enforcement investigation, resulting in serious penalties and/or onerous ongoing compliance obligations. Should Ozark Gas Transmission’s fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, it could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. Finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which APL will operate Ozark Gas Transmission or the effect such regulation could have on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the DOT and state agencies could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. United States Department of Transportation and state agency regulations require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventative and mitigating actions. Page 48 Table of Contents We do not believe that the cost of implementing integrity management program testing along certain segments of APL’s pipeline will have a material effect on its results of operations. This does not include the costs, if any, of any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which costs could be substantial. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in APL’s business due to its handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to its operations, historical industry operations including releases of substances into the environment, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of APL’s pipelines or processing facilities could subject it to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase APL’s compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. APL may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. APL may not be able to execute its growth strategy successfully. APL’s strategy contemplates substantial growth through both the acquisition of other gathering systems and processing assets and the expansion of its existing gathering systems and processing assets. APL’s growth strategy involves numerous risks, including: • APL may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; • APL may not be able to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms for various reasons, including limitations on access to capital and increased competition for a limited pool of suitable assets; • APL’s costs in seeking to make acquisitions may be material, even if it cannot complete any acquisition it has pursued; • irrespective of estimates at the time it makes an acquisition, the acquisition may prove to be dilutive to earnings and operating surplus; • APL may encounter difficulties in integrating operations and systems; and • any additional debt APL incurs to finance an acquisition may impair its ability to service its existing debt. Limitations on APL’s access to capital or the market for its common units will impair APL’s ability to execute its growth strategy. APL’s ability to raise capital for acquisitions and other capital expenditures depends upon ready access to the capital markets. Historically, APL has financed its acquisitions, and to a much lesser extent, expansions of its gathering systems by bank credit facilities and the proceeds of public and private equity offerings of its common units and preferred units of its operating partnership. If APL is unable to access the capital markets, it may be unable to execute its strategy of growth through acquisitions. APL’s hedging strategies may fail to protect it and could reduce its gross margin and cash flow. APL pursues various hedging strategies to seek to reduce its exposure to losses from adverse changes in the prices for natural gas and NGLs. APL’s hedging activities will vary in scope based upon the level and volatility of natural gas and NGL prices and other changing market conditions. APL’s hedging activity may fail to protect or could harm it because, among other things: • hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; Page 49 Table of Contents • available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks against which APL seeks protection; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which APL seeks protection; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. APL is subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. APL’s operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incidental to transporting and processing natural gas and NGLs. These hazards include: • damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods and other natural disasters; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leakage of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • fires and explosions; • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations; and • acts of terrorism directed at APL’s pipeline infrastructure, production facilities, transmission and distribution facilities and surrounding properties. As a result, APL may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from its operations. APL may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for some of APL’s insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If APL were to incur a significant liability for which it was not fully insured, its gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 