ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Statements made by us in written or oral form to various persons, including statements made in filings with the SEC that are not strictly historical facts, are “forward-looking” statements that are based on current expectations about our business and assumptions made by management. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that exist in our operations and business environment that could result in actual outcomes and results that are materially different than predicted. The following includes some, but not all, of those factors or uncertainties: Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in prices, particularly natural gas prices, would decrease our revenues and the value of our natural gas and oil properties and could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our drilling operations through drilling investment partnerships. Our future financial condition and results of operations, and the value of our natural gas and oil properties, will depend upon market prices for natural gas and oil. Natural gas and oil prices historically have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Prices we have received during our past three fiscal years for our natural gas have ranged from a high of $7.87 per Mcf in the quarter ended September 30, 2005 to a low of $3.39 per Mcf in the quarter ended December 31, 2001. Prices for natural gas and oil are dictated by supply and demand. Factors affecting supply the following: · the availability of pipeline capacity; · the viability of economic exploration and development of oil and gas reserves: · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · political instability or armed conflict in oil producing regions or other market uncertainties; and · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil prices and production controls. The factors affecting demand include: · weather conditions; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the price and level of foreign imports; and · the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and gas price movements with any certainty. Price fluctuations can materially adversely affect us because: · price decreases will reduce the amount of cash flow available to us for drilling and production operations and for our capital contributions to our drilling investment partnerships; · price decreases may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our drilling and development operations through sponsored drilling investment partnerships, borrowing or otherwise; 17 · price decreases may make some reserves uneconomic to produce, reducing our reserves and cash flow; and · price decreases may cause the lenders under our credit facility to reduce our borrowing base because of lower revenues or reserve values, reducing our liquidity and, possibly, requiring mandatory loan repayment. Further, oil and gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem. Because approximately 92% of our proved reserves are currently natural gas reserves, we are more susceptible to movements in natural gas prices. Drilling wells is highly speculative. The amount of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves may vary significantly from well to well. While our average estimated ultimate recovery from our wells is 149,656 Mmcfe per well, recoverable natural gas from individual wells ranges up to 1.68 Bcfe. We may drill wells that, while profitable on an operating basis, do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs are taken into account. The geologic data and technologies available do not allow us to know conclusively before drilling a well that natural gas or oil is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain. For example, from 2003 through early 2005 we experienced an increase in the cost of tubular steel as a result of rising steel prices which will increase well costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of many factors, including: · title problems; · environmental or other regulatory concerns; · costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, oil field services and equipment; · unexpected drilling conditions; · unexpected geological conditions; · adverse weather conditions; and · equipment failures or accidents. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay our receipt of drilling and production revenues, thereby reducing our earnings, and could reduce revenues in one or more of our drilling investment partnerships, which may make it more difficult to finance our drilling operations through sponsorship of future partnerships. Properties that we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. As part of our business strategy, we continually seek acquisitions of gas and oil properties. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties requires assessment of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: · future oil and natural gas prices; · the amount of recoverable reserves; · future operating costs; · future development costs; · costs and timing of plugging and abandoning wells; and · potential environmental and other liabilities. 18 Our assessment will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. With respect to properties on which there is current production, we may not inspect every well, platform or pipeline in the course of our due diligence. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination. We may not be able to obtain or recover on contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. Estimates of proved reserves are uncertain and, as a result, revenues from production may vary significantly from our expectations. We base our estimates of our proved natural gas and oil reserves and future net revenues from those reserves upon analyses that rely upon various assumptions, including those required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as to natural gas and oil prices, taxes, development expenses, capital expenses, operating expenses and availability of funds. Any significant variance in these assumptions, and, in our case, assumptions concerning natural gas prices, could materially affect the estimated quantity of our reserves. As a result, our estimates of our proved natural gas and oil reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, natural gas and oil prices, taxes, development expenses, operating expenses, availability of funds and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves may vary substantially from our estimates or estimates contained in our reserve report. Our properties also may be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, our proved reserves may be revised downward or upward based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices, governmental regulation and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At September 30, 2005, approximately 30% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will obtain the necessary capital and conduct these operations successfully which, for the reasons discussed elsewhere in this section, may not occur. If we cannot replace reserves, our revenues and production will decline. Our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we acquire or lease additional properties containing proved reserves, successfully develop new or existing properties or identify additional formations with primary or secondary reserve opportunities on our properties. If we are not successful in expanding our reserve base, our future natural gas and oil production and drilling activities, the primary source of our energy revenues, will decrease. Our ability to find and acquire additional reserves depends on our generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, principally our sponsored drilling investment partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this report. If we are unable to acquire assets from others or obtain capital funds through our drilling investment partnerships, our revenues may decline. The growth of our energy operations has resulted from both our acquisition of energy companies and assets and from our ability to obtain capital funds through our sponsored drilling investment partnerships. If we are unable to identify acquisitions on acceptable terms, or cannot obtain sufficient capital funds through sponsored drilling investment partnerships, we may be unable to increase or maintain our inventory of properties and reserve base, or be forced to curtail drilling, production or other activities. This would result in a decline in our revenues. Changes in tax laws may impair our ability to obtain capital funds through our drilling investment partnerships. Under current federal tax laws, there are tax benefits to investing in drilling investment partnerships such as those we sponsor, including deductions for intangible drilling costs and depletion deductions. Changes to federal tax law that reduce or eliminate these benefits may make investment in our drilling investment partnerships less attractive and, thus, reduce our ability to obtain funding from this significant source of capital funds. A recent change to federal tax law that may affect us is the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, which reduced the maximum federal income tax rate on long-term capital gains and qualifying dividends to 15% through 2008. These changes may make investment in our drilling investment partnerships relatively less attractive than investments in assets likely to yield capital gains or qualifying dividends. 19 Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may hinder our ability to acquire gas and oil properties and companies and to obtain capital. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and other natural gas and oil companies and attracting capital through our drilling investment partnerships. For example, we have been advised by the Pennsylvania Bureau of Oil and Gas Management that there are 679 well operators currently bonded in Pennsylvania, one of our core operating areas. We also compete with the exploration and production divisions of public utility companies for natural gas and oil property acquisitions. Our competitors may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Moreover, our competitors for investment capital may have better track records in their programs, lower costs or better connections in the securities industry segment that markets oil and gas investment programs than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves and raising additional capital. We may be exposed to financial and other liabilities as the general partner in drilling investment partnerships. We currently serve as the managing general partner of 90 drilling investment partnerships and will be the general partner of new drilling investment partnerships that we sponsor. As general partner, we are contingently liable for the obligations of these partnerships to the extent that partnership assets or insurance proceeds are insufficient. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of natural gas and oil are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation. We discuss our regulatory environment in more detail in “Business - Governmental Regulation.” We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Other regulations may limit our operations. For example, “frost laws” prohibit drilling and other heavy equipment from using certain roads during winter, a principal drilling season for us, which may delay us in drilling and completing wells. Moreover, governmental regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs, thereby reducing our return on invested capital, revenues and net income. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Our natural gas and oil operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance or could restrict our methods or times of operation. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. We discuss the environmental laws that affect our operations in more detail in “Business—Governmental Regulation.” Pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. We may elect to self-insure if we believe that insurance, although available, is excessively costly relative to the risks presented. The occurrence of an event that is not covered, or not fully covered, by insurance could reduce our revenues and the value of our assets. Well blowouts, pipeline ruptures and other operating and environmental problems could result in substantial losses to us. Well blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks are inherent operating hazards for us. The occurrence of any of those hazards could result in substantial losses to us, including liabilities to third parties or governmental entities for damages resulting from the occurrence of any of those hazards and substantial investigation, litigation and remediation costs. 20 We may be required to write-down the carrying value of our proved properties; any such write-downs would be a charge to our earnings. We may be required to write-down the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties when natural gas and oil prices are low. In addition, write-downs may occur if we have: · downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves; · increases in our estimates of development costs; or · deterioration in our exploration and development results. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could delay our exploration and development plans and decrease net revenues from drilling operations. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay our development and exploration plans, thereby reducing our revenues from drilling operations and delaying our receipt of production revenues from wells we planned to drill. Moreover, increased costs, whether due to shortages or other causes, will reduce the number of wells we can drill for existing drilling investment partnerships and, by making our drilling investment partnerships less attractive as investments, may reduce the amount of financing for drilling operations we can obtain from them. This may reduce our revenues not only from drilling operations but also, if fewer wells are drilled, from production of natural gas and oil. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or cause us to lose money. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of oil and gas, we periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements, typically costless collars. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and gas prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • production is substantially less than expected: • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • A sudden, unexpected event materially impacts gas or oil prices. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The United States has been the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scale. The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our purchasers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 