Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. As such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to Our Business Future changes in health care law present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Health care laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: • imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; • increasing our administrative and other costs; • requiring us to undergo a corporate restructuring; • increasing mandated benefits; • further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; • restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; • requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; or • requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Changes in state law, regulations and rules also may materially adversely affect our profitability. Requirements relating to managed care consumer protection standards, including increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, “clean claim” payment timing (claims for which no additional information is needed), physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. New health care reform legislation may require us to change the way we operate our business, which may be costly. Further, although we strive to exercise care in structuring our operations to comply in all material respects with the laws and regulations applicable to us, government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing such laws and/or regulations have in the past asserted and may in the future assert that we, or transactions in which we are involved, are in violation of these laws, or courts may ultimately interpret such laws in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Therefore, it is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under our government-sponsored programs and to continue to serve our members and attract new members, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe the 2010 Acts will bring about significant changes to the American health care system. While these measures are intended to expand the number of United States citizens covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system, the costs of implementing the 2010 Acts will be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain level of payments to us and other health plans under Medicare. Provisions of the 2010 Acts will become effective over the next several years. Several departments within the federal government are responsible for issuing regulations and guidance on implementing the 2010 Acts. However, states have independently proposed health insurance reforms and are challenging certain aspects of the 2010 Acts in federal court. These challenges seek to limit the scope of the 2010 Acts or have all or portions of the 2010 Acts declared unconstitutional. Judicial proceedings are subject to appeal and could last for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict the results of any of these proceedings. Congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the 2010 Acts or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether. Given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the 2010 Acts could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. In addition, the response of other companies to the 2010 Acts and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful impact in the health care markets. Further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. It is reasonably possible that regulations related to the 2010 Acts, as well as future legislative changes, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows by restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our Medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments. In addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax is imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address this new tax, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents The 2010 Acts include a number of changes to the way MA plans will operate, such as: · Reduced Enrollment Period. Medicare beneficiaries generally have a limited annual enrollment period during which they can choose to participate in a MA plan rather than receive benefits under the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. After the annual enrollment period, most Medicare beneficiaries are not permitted to change their Medicare benefits until the following annual enrollment period. Beginning with the 2012 plan year, the 2010 Acts changed the annual enrollment period, which for 2012 began on October 15, 2011 and ended on December 7, 2011. Previously, open enrollment was from November 15 to December 31. Also, beginning on January 1, 2011, the 2010 Acts mandate that persons enrolled in MA may disenroll only during the first 45 days of the year, and only may enroll in traditional Medicare fee-for-service rather than another MA plan. Prior law allowed a member to disenroll during the first 90 days of the year and enroll in another MA plan. · Reduced Medicare Premium Rates. MA payment benchmarks for 2011 were frozen at 2010 levels and, beginning in 2012, cuts to MA plan payments will begin to take effect (plans will receive a range of 95% of Medicare fee-for-service costs in high-cost areas to 115% of Medicare fee-for-service costs in low-cost areas), with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of payment reduction in a county. In addition, beginning in 2011, the gap in coverage for Medicare Part D PDP began to incrementally close. · CMS Star Ratings. Certain provisions in the 2010 Acts tie MA premiums to the achievement of certain quality performance measures (“Star Ratings”). Beginning in 2012, MA plans with an overall Star Rating of three or more stars (out of five) will be eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. Initially, quality bonuses were limited to the few plans that achieved four or more stars as an overall rating, but CMS has expanded the quality bonus to three star plans for a three year period through 2014. Notwithstanding successful efforts to improve our Star Ratings and other quality measures for 2012 and 2013 and the continuation of such efforts, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our Star Ratings in future years. Accordingly, our plans may not be eligible for full level quality bonuses, which could adversely affect the benefits such plans can offer, reduce membership and/or reduce profit margins. · Minimum MLRs. Beginning in 2014, the 2010 Acts require the establishment of a minimum MLR of 85% for the amount of premiums to be expended on medical benefits for MA plans. In November 2010 and December 2011, HHS issued rules clarifying the definitions and minimum MLR requirements for certain commercial health plans, but has not issued rules or guidance specific to MA plans. The rules that have been issued impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum MLR, including requirements to refund to CMS shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's MA contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum MLR. MLR is determined by adding a plan's total reimbursement for clinical services plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). However, there can be no assurance that CMS will interpret the minimum MLR requirement in the same manner for MA plans. Although HHS has not issued specific guidance regarding the minimum loss ratio provision that is specific to MA plans, we are currently assessing the guidance issued for commercial plans in order to estimate which of our administrative costs might be considered to be quality improvement costs and be included as expense in the calculation. With respect to Part D plans, in 2010, a rebate of $250 was provided by CMS for beneficiaries reaching the coverage gap. In addition, beneficiaries reaching the coverage gap receive a 50% discount on brand-name drugs. Thereafter, on a gradual basis, the coverage gap will be closed by 2020, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay. While this change ultimately results in increased insurance coverage, such improved benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. Such actions could also impact the cost structure of our Part D programs. 27 Table of Contents The health reforms in the 2010 Acts present both challenges and opportunities for our Medicaid business. The reforms expand the eligibility for Medicaid programs. However, state budgets continue to be strained due to economic conditions and uncertain levels of federal financing for current populations. As a result, the effects of any potential future expansions are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net impact of the 2010 Acts will be positive or negative for our Medicaid business. The 2010 Acts also include an annual assessment on the insurance industry beginning in 2014. The legislation anticipates that the $8 billion insurance industry assessment will increase in subsequent years. Risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. CMS employs a risk-adjustment model to determine the premium amount it pays for each member. This model apportions premiums paid to all MA plans according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. As a result, our CMS monthly premium payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably. The CMS risk-adjustment model pays more for Medicare members with predictably higher costs. Diagnosis data from inpatient and ambulatory treatment settings are used to calculate the risk-adjusted premiums we receive. We collect claims and encounter data and submit the necessary diagnosis data to CMS within prescribed deadlines. After reviewing the respective submissions, CMS establishes the premium payments to MA plans generally at the beginning of the calendar year, and then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions on a retroactive basis. The first retroactive adjustment for a given fiscal year generally occurs during the third quarter of such fiscal year. The initial CMS settlement represents the updating of risk scores for the current year based on the severity of claims incurred in the prior fiscal year. CMS then issues the final CMS settlement. We reassess the estimates of the initial CMS settlement and the final CMS settlement each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to MA premium revenue. We develop our estimates for risk-adjusted premiums utilizing historical experience and predictive models as sufficient member risk score data becomes available over the course of each CMS plan year. Our models are populated with available risk score data on our members. Risk premium adjustments are based on member risk score data from the previous year. Risk score data for members who entered our plans during the current plan year, however, are not available for use in our models; therefore, we make assumptions regarding the risk scores of this subset of our member population. All such estimated amounts are periodically updated as additional diagnosis code information is reported to CMS and adjusted to actual amounts when the ultimate adjustment settlements are either received from CMS or we receive notification from CMS of such settlement amounts. As a result of the variability of certain factors that determine such estimates, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of CMS retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. Consequently, our estimate of our plans’ risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of MA premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Historically, we have not experienced significant differences between the amounts that we have recorded and the revenues that we ultimately receive. The data provided to CMS to determine the risk score are subject to audit by CMS even after the annual settlements occur. These audits may result in the refund of premiums to CMS previously received by us. While our experience to date has not resulted in a material refund, this refund could be significant in the future, which would reduce our premium revenue in the year that CMS determines repayment is required. CMS has performed and continues to perform RADV audits of selected MA plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each MA member. Our Florida MA plan was selected by CMS for audit for the 2007 contract year and we anticipate that CMS will conduct additional audits of other plans and contract years on an ongoing basis. The CMS audit process selects a sample of 201 enrollees for medical record review from each contract selected. We have responded to CMS’s audit requests by retrieving and submitting all available medical records and provider attestations to substantiate CMS-sampled diagnosis codes. CMS will use this documentation to calculate a payment error rate for our Florida MA plan 2007 premiums. CMS has not indicated a schedule for processing or otherwise responding to our submissions. CMS has indicated that payment adjustments resulting from its RADV audits will not be limited to risk scores for the specific beneficiaries for which errors are found, but will be extrapolated to the relevant plan population. In late December 2010, CMS issued a draft audit sampling and payment error calculation methodology that it proposes to use in conducting these audits. CMS invited public comment on the proposed audit methodology and announced in early February 2011 that it will revise its proposed approach based on the comments received. CMS has not given a specific timetable for issuing a final version of the audit sampling and payment error calculation methodology. Given that the RADV audit methodology is new and is subject to modification, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to MA organizations like our Florida MA plan. At this time, we do not know whether CMS will require retroactive or subsequent payment adjustments to be made using an audit methodology that may not compare the coding of our providers to the coding of Original Medicare and other MA plan providers, or whether any of our other plans will be randomly selected or targeted for a similar audit by CMS. We are also unable to determine whether any conclusions that CMS may make, based on the audit of our plan and others, will cause us to change our revenue estimation process. Because of this lack of clarity from CMS, we are unable to estimate with any reasonable confidence a coding or payment error rate or predict the impact of extrapolating an applicable error rate to our Florida MA plan 2007 premiums. However, it is likely that a payment adjustment will occur as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, possibly in 2012 and beyond. 28 Table of Contents Two of our Medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue during 2011, and our failure to retain our contracts in those states, or a change in conditions in those states, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our concentration of operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions or payment delays, a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or pandemic, or an unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011, two of our Medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, which on a combined basis represented approximately 66% of our Medicaid segment revenue and 39% of our consolidated premium revenues. These customers (Florida and Georgia) accounted for four separate contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. Our two Florida Medicaid contracts expire in August 2012 and our Florida CHIP contract expires in September 2012. We currently anticipate that the Medicaid contracts will be replaced by one-year contracts while the state evaluates its Medicaid programs; we also anticipate bidding for a new Florida CHIP contract in 2012. Our Georgia contract was recently amended to provide two additional one-year renewal terms (for a total of eight renewals under this contract), allowing the state to renew through June 2014. If we lost this, or any of these other contracts, through the rebidding process and/or termination, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Medicaid premiums are fixed by contract and do not permit us to increase our premiums during the contract term despite any corresponding medical benefits expense exceeding estimates. Most of our Medicaid revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries. These payments are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to four years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by state and federal governments. We use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. We have less control over costs related to the provision of health care services than we have over our selling, general and administrative expense. If premiums do not increase when expenses related to medical services rise, our earnings will be affected negatively. Further, our regulators set premiums using actuarial methods based on historical data. Actual experience, however, could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. If our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators’ actuarial pricing assumptions, we will be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some hospital contracts are directly tied to state Medicaid fee schedules, in which case reimbursement levels will be adjusted up or down, based on adjustments made by the state to the impacted fee schedule. Therefore, it is possible for a state to increase the rates payable by us to hospitals used by our members without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. We have experienced such adjustments in the states in which we operate. Unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively impacted. Our actual medical services costs may exceed our estimates, which would cause our MBR, or our expenses related to medical services as a percentage of premium revenue, excluding premium taxes, to increase and our profits to decline. Relatively small changes in our MBR can create significant changes in our financial results. Accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) claims may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, our medical benefits expense as a percentage of premium revenue has fluctuated within a relatively narrow band. For example, our medical benefits expense was 81.0%, 84.4% and 86.5% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. However, at any point, certain factors may cause these percentages to increase. Factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed our estimates include: • an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including prescription drugs, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; • higher-than-expected utilization of health care services, particularly in-patient hospital services, or unexpected utilization patterns; • periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician, and other provider contracts; • changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; • new mandated benefits or other changes in health care laws, regulations, and practices; • new treatments and technologies; and • contractual disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers. 29 Table of Contents We attempt to control these costs through a variety of techniques, including capitation and other risk-sharing payment methods, collaborative relationships with PCPs and other providers, case and disease management and quality assurance programs, and preventive and wellness visits for members. These efforts and programs to manage our medical expenses may not be sufficient to manage these expenses effectively in the future. If our medical expenses increase, our profits could be reduced or we may no longer be able to remain profitable. Medicaid premiums are a significant portion of our total consolidated premium revenue and any significant delay in premium payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Over 58% of our consolidated revenues for 2011 consisted of Medicaid premiums. We use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. We generally receive payment of Medicaid premiums during the month in which we provide services, although we have experienced delays in receiving monthly payments from certain states and our ability to require timely payment is generally very limited. Economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could result in additional and more extensive delays than we have experienced in the past. For example, the Georgia DCH has recently informed us that it is delaying the payment of certain premiums for as much as $300 million during the first quarter of 2012, and then will restore these payments during the second quarter of 2012. If there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our Medicare revenue from our PDP operations, which we bid for annually. The results of our bid could materially reduce our revenue and profits. Medicare Part D premiums are a significant portion of our premium revenue. The amount of premium we receive is based on an annual competitive bidding process that may cause us to decrease premiums we will charge and/or enhance the benefits we offer. A significant portion of our PDP membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in CMS-designated regions where our PDP premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans’ bids. In general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding PDP membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. If our future Part D premium bids are not below the CMS benchmarks, we risk losing PDP members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional PDP members auto-assigned to us, which would materially reduce our revenue and profits. For example, in 2012, our PDP bids were below the relevant benchmarks in five of the 34 CMS regions and within the de minimus range of the benchmark in 17 other CMS regions. Comparatively, in 2011, our PDP plans were below the benchmark in 20 regions and within the de minimus range in eight other regions. This change resulted in the loss of approximately 7% of our PDP membership from December 31, 2011 to January 1, 2012. Failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts or maintain satisfactory quality scores, as measured by the government agencies, could negatively impact our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our members, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts. Our contracts with CMS and state government agencies contain provisions regarding quality measures, provider network maintenance, continuity of care, data submission, call center performance and other requirements. CMS and several states have provisions or plans in place that measure the quality of care provided to our members, such as how we provide preventive care services, manage chronic illnesses, encourage proper emergency room utilization and minimize member complaints. These quality measures are, in some cases, based on results of surveys of members enrolled in our plans. However, we believe that members generally do not distinguish between issues caused by us, their providers or the coverage allowed under the government program. Quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of CMS, beginning in 2012, to pay bonuses to better-performing MA plans that enable those plans to offer improved member health benefits to attract more members. In certain states, plans that do not meet the quality measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, or pay penalties, or the plan may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. We anticipate that we may not meet some of the performance requirements of our contracts to provide services under the New York Medicaid and FHP programs for the third consecutive year. If the state determines that we have failed to meet the contractual requirements, these contracts may be subject to termination, or other remedies, at the discretion of the state. We are unable to predict what actions the state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. Under the terms of our contracts, we are subject to reviews, audits and examinations to verify and assess our compliance with those contracts and applicable laws and regulations. If any of these reviews, audits or examinations conclude that we have failed to comply with contract provisions or maintain satisfactory quality measures, any of the following could result: the refund of premiums we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; imposition of financial penalties or other sanctions; reduction or limitation of our membership, loss of our right to participate in the program; or loss of one or more of our licenses. Our failure to comply could also impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets. Any such actions could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. 30 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain accreditations could disqualify us from participation in certain state Medicaid programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Several of our Medicaid contracts require that our plans or subcontracted providers be accredited by independent accrediting organizations that are focused on improving the quality of health care services. Our Florida, Georgia, Missouri and Hawaii health plans are required by our Medicaid contracts to be accredited, with our Missouri contract specifying NCQA accreditation. Further, Florida Medicaid plans can only subcontract behavioral health services to accredited organizations. Our Florida, Georgia and Missouri health plans have received accreditation from the requisite accrediting organizations. We have until July 1, 2012 to obtain accreditation for our Hawaii health plan. There can be no assurances that we will maintain, or obtain, our accreditations, and the loss of, or failure to obtain accreditations required by contract could adversely our ability to participate in certain Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows and results of operations. If we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could cease to be profitable. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. Relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive, or medical benefits ratio, can create significant changes in our financial results. Factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include: • an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; • higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; • periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; • the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; • changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; and • new mandated benefits or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices. We manage our medical costs through a variety of techniques, including various methods of paying PCPs and other providers, advance approval for certain hospital services and referral requirements, medical and quality management programs, information systems, and reinsurance arrangements. However, if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to continue managing these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. We maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, but we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. 31 Table of Contents We may be unable to expand into some geographic areas without incurring significant additional costs and if we are able to expand, ineffective management of our growth may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. Our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may be inhibited by: • the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary license to operate in the new area or the expansion of our licensed service area, if necessary; • our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; • CMS or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as CMS star ratings; • competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; • the cost of providing health care services in those areas; • demographics and population density; and • applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. Accordingly, we may be unsuccessful in entering other metropolitan areas, counties or states, which may impede our growth. Depending on opportunities, we expect to continue to increase our membership and to expand into other markets. However, such growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources and we are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or counties where we do not currently operate. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team and attract, train and retain skilled associates, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to potential acquisitions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. Our prudent and profitable growth initiative may be limited if we are unable to raise additional unregulated cash at favorable financing terms, if needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our business strategy has been defined by three primary initiatives, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. We may need to access the credit or equity markets to partially fund these growth activities. Our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where we need to access these markets and financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. Our ability to obtain favorable financing may be unfavorable in terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions and could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible. Depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty, or be unable to implement our growth strategy as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We rely on a number of vendors, and failure of any one of the key vendors to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have contracted with a number of vendors to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management and behavioral health services for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. Our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to perform adequately under our contracts with them. In addition, where a vendor provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. Significant failure by a vendor to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We encounter significant competition for program participation, members and network providers, and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share and greater financial resources than we have in some markets. We compete with numerous types of competitors, including other Medicaid or Medicare health plans. We operate in, or may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. In these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable business which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. We may not be able to develop innovative products and services which are attractive to members. We cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. In addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. We believe providers select plans in which they participate based on criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. To the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth, and control medical cost trends, and/or our pricing flexibility, may be adversely affected. Failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. For a discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate, see Part I, Item 1 – Business — Competition. If we are unable to build and maintain satisfactory relationships with our providers, we may be precluded from operating in some markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to enter into cost-effective contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers in appropriate numbers and at locations convenient for our members in each of the markets in which we operate. In any particular market, however, providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical benefits expense. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, have significant market positions. If such a provider or any of our other providers refused to contract with us or used its market position to negotiate contracts that might not be cost-effective or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage, those actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in that market. Also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. In the long term, our ability to contract successfully with a sufficiently large number of providers in a particular geographic market will affect the relative attractiveness of our managed care products in that market. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating satisfactory contracts with our network providers, it could preclude us from renewing our Medicaid or Medicare contracts in those markets, from being able to enroll new members or from entering into new markets. Also, in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. Our provider contracts with network PCPs and specialists generally have terms of one year, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms unless otherwise specified in writing by either party. We are also required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. We may be unable to maintain our relationships with our network providers or enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or on favorable terms. If we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our ongoing operations and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Changes in our member mix may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Our revenues, costs and margins vary based on changes to our membership demographics and products. Our revenues are generally comprised of fixed payments that are determined by the types of members in our plans. The payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs required to serve members with various demographic and health risk profiles. As such, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our Medicaid and Medicare lines of business. For instance, the rates we receive for an SSI member are generally significantly higher than for a non-SSI member who is otherwise similarly situated. As the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents If a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant percentage of our Medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in Medicaid managed care plans. States may mandate that certain types of Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in Medicaid managed care through CMS-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by CMS. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. Premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. A state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. Our review of all remittance files to identify potential duplicate members, members that should be terminated or members for which we have been paid an incorrect rate may not identify all such members and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. As an example, during 2011 the Georgia DCH made premium adjustments in 2011 retroactive to the beginning of the program in 2006 for overpayments related to a reconciliation of duplicate member records. We had previously identified and accrued an estimated liability for overpayments that we believed would be returned to Georgia DCH and considering the adjustments to historical capitation premium rates that the Georgia DCH is making for the periods affected by duplicative enrollment, the net impact to premium revenue resulting from the adjustments was immaterial to our results of operations. In addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. Our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state’s failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. We have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. If the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, including periodic reviews and audits under our contracts with government agencies, and any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. Any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 34 As we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: ● forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; ● imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; ● loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including Medicaid and Medicare; ● damage to our reputation in various markets; ● increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; ● inability to obtain approval for future service or geographic expansion; and ● suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, HMO or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service. We are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and CMS to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. For additional risks associated with a current CMS audit of one of our plans, see Risk adjustment payment systems’ make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations above. We are subject to laws, government regulations and agreements that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. Our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an HMO or insurance company. For purposes of these laws, in most states “control” is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. These laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. In addition, certain of our preliminary settlements require us to make additional payments upon the occurrence of certain change of control events. These include a $35.0 million payment in the event that we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control within three years of the execution of the final settlement agreement with the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice (the “Civil Division”), the Civil Division of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Florida (the “USAO”), and the Civil Division of the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut to settle their pending inquiries. Additionally, if, within three years following the date of the settlement agreement with the lead plaintiffs in the consolidated securities class action against us, we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control at a share price of $30.00 or more, we will be required to pay to the class an additional $25.0 million. We are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to lawsuits and claims against us, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as “fraud and abuse” laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. Liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent, and some courts have permitted False Claims Act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. Liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. Many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. For example, in October 2008, the Civil Division informed us that as part of its pending civil inquiry, it was investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3729-3733. We also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action in state court for Leon County, Florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. With respect to these actions, in June 2010 we announced that we reached a preliminary settlement with the Civil Division, the Civil Division of the USAO, and the Civil Division of the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut. Please see Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings for additional information on these matters. However, other qui tam actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other qui tam actions may be filed against us in the future. 35 Table of Contents If we encounter unforeseen operational challenges relating to new business, or the programs are not successful, our business could be adversely affected. When a state implements a new managed care program, such as Kentucky’s Medicaid managed care program or Hawaii’s QUEST program, there is a greater potential for unanticipated impacts on the health plan than with established programs. For example, the Medicaid managed care program in Kentucky, for which we began providing services to beneficiaries on November 1, 2011, is new for both the Company and the commonwealth and such new programs present both opportunities and risks for us. The expedited timeframe in which the Kentucky program has been implemented increases these risks. Medicaid managed care operations vary from state to state as a result of variations in program design, covered benefits, health plan requirements and other factors. These variations add to the complexity of our business and increase the risk of unforeseen operational challenges associated with the new business, noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. Further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. Ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. If we are unable to manage the contract implementation process effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. In August 2011, we entered into a $300.0 million credit agreement that provides for a senior secured term loan facility in the amount of up to $150.0 million and a senior secured revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million. Upon closing, we borrowed $150.0 million under the term loan facility. At December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of the term loan was $146.3 million. No amounts have been drawn from the revolving loan facility to date. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; · limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and · exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our senior credit facilities is variable. Our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures which could impede our growth. If our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt which could harm our long-term business prospects. Restrictions and covenants in our debt obligations may limit our growth capabilities and our ability to declare dividends. Failure to comply with covenants could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable. Our credit agreement contains various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. If we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay indebtedness owed to our secured creditors, they could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. If we are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. The information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis and e-commerce. These systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. These systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. There can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. 36 Table of Contents There can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. Additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our information systems and applications. To help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary data center operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover business functionality within stated timelines. Our disaster plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, and such costs could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, fines and penalties, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if such breaches are not prevented. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), civil penalties for HIPAA violations by covered entities are increased up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. In addition, imposition of these penalties is now more likely because ARRA strengthens enforcement. For example, commencing February 2010, HHS was required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. Investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties became mandatory in February 2011, are statutorily required. In addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. Initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of HHS for further enforcement, and within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations. In addition, ARRA requires us to notify affected individuals, HHS, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. ARRA also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. While provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under ARRA, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state Medicaid agencies. We are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. We will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under ARRA are promulgated and more guidance becomes available from HHS and other federal agencies. The new privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, employee education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. Given HIPAA’s complexity and the anticipated new regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the HIPAA requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under ARRA and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. 37 Table of Contents Federal regulations required entities subject to HIPAA to update their transaction formats for electronic data exchange to the new HIPAA 5010 standards; however, some entities are currently in transition to the new standards which could adversely impact administrative expense and compliance. A federal mandate known as HIPAA 5010 required health plans to use new standards for conducting certain operational and administrative transactions electronically beginning in January 2012. These administrative transactions include: claims, remittance, eligibility and claims status requests and responses. The HIPAA 5010 upgrade was prompted by government and industry's shared goal of providing higher-quality, lower-cost health care and the need for a comprehensive electronic data exchange environment for the ICD-10 mandate to be implemented by October 2013. Upgrading to the new HIPAA 5010 standards should increase transaction uniformity, support pay for performance and streamline reimbursement transactions. We, along with other health plans, faced significant pressure to make sure that we installed our software and tested it for compatibility with our business partners. Because HIPAA 5010 affects electronic transactions such as patient eligibility, claims filing, claims status and remittance advice, we proceeded proactively to achieve full functionality of HIPAA 5010 transactions, and did so, before the January 1, 2012 deadline. However, in November 2011, CMS announced it would delay enforcement actions related to implementation of HIPAA 5010 until March 31, 2012. To avoid disruption with providers, we are currently accepting administrative transactions that are not compliant with HIPAA 5010. This creates additional expense as we have to convert the non-compliant data in our systems, but we believe this is required to avoid transaction rejections and subsequent payment delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. As the delayed implementation deadline approaches for full implementation of HIPAA 5010, we will continue to test our claims management systems to prevent any operational disruptions. Our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new ICD-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. HHS has released rules pursuant to HIPAA which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. HHS also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. By 2013, the federal government will require that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. These new standardized code sets, known as ICD-10, will require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. While use of the ICD-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. However, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. Furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. If state regulatory agencies require a higher statutory capital level for our existing operations or if we become subject to additional capital requirements, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to our regulated subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. Our operations are conducted primarily through licensed HMO and insurance subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. One or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. The phased-in increase in reserve requirements to which our New York plan is subject has, over time, materially increased our reserve requirements in that plan. Other states may elect to adopt risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the NAIC. As of December 31, 2011, our HMO operations in Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio and Texas as well as three of our insurance company subsidiaries were all subject to such guidelines. Our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. Our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators’ general oversight powers. Regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state’s regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. For example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. Any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. In addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. 38 Table of Contents Failure of our state regulators to approve payments of dividends and/or distributions from certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, non-regulated cash flows, business and financial condition. In most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend or intercompany transaction is often not clearly defined. Health plans that declare ordinary dividends usually must provide notice to the regulators in advance of the intended distribution date of such dividend. Extraordinary dividends require approval by state regulators prior to declaration. If our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. To the extent that our encounter data is inaccurate or incomplete, we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct this data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. The accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. In some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. There also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. In either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. As states increase their reliance on encounter data, challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. Claims relating to medical malpractice and other litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our providers involved in medical care decisions and associates involved in coverage decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Some states have passed or are considering legislation that permits managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations, or eliminates the requirement that providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. This kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. This could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or could cause us to pay additional premiums to increase our insurance coverage. Therefore, successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our associates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we are party to various other litigation matters (including the matters discussed in Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings), some of which seek monetary damages. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we may incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain errors and omissions policies as well as other insurance coverage. However, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance coverage may be inadequate. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future or that insurance will continue to be available to us on a cost-effective basis. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. 39 Table of Contents Our inability to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property rights in our brand names for our health plans or enforce such rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to market our health plans under our brand names, including “WellCare,” “HealthEase,” “Staywell,” “Harmony” and “Ohana”. We hold federal trademark registrations for the “WellCare,” "HealthEase" and "Harmony" trademarks, and we are pursuing an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to register “Ohana Health Plan, Inc. & Design.” We use the “Staywell” trademark only in the State of Florida, and, pursuant to an agreement with The Staywell Company, a health education company based in St. Paul, Minnesota, we will co-exist with their use of that term for very different kinds of services and will not pursue a federal registration of that trademark. It is possible that other businesses may have actual or purported rights in the same names or similar names to those under which we market our health plans, which could limit or prevent our ability to use these names, or our ability to prevent others from using these names. If we are unable to prevent others from using our brand names, if others prohibit us from using such names or if we incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in such brand names, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Difficulties in successfully executing acquisitions and other significant transactions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. As part of our business strategy, we may engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential acquisitions of program contract rights and related assets of other health plans, both in existing service areas and in new markets. We believe acquisitions may contribute to our growth strategy. However, many other potential acquirers have greater financial resources than we have. For this reason, among others, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete favorable acquisitions or that we will be able to obtain appropriate financing for these acquisitions, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years. In addition, we generally are required to obtain regulatory approval from federal and state agencies when making acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not currently operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. Furthermore, even if we currently operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain additional regulatory approval if the acquisition would result in operating in an area of the state in which we did not operate previously, and we would be required to renegotiate contracts with the network providers of the acquired business. We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition, or renegotiate the necessary provider contracts, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition to the difficulties discussed above, we would also be required to integrate and consolidate the acquired businesses within our existing operations, which may result in certain inherent difficulties: · additional personnel who are not familiar with our operations and corporate culture; · acquired provider networks may operate on different terms than our existing networks; · existing members may decide to switch to another health care plan; and · disparate administrative and information systems. We may be unable to successfully identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions, including integrating the acquired businesses on our information technology platform, or to implement our operations strategy in order to operate acquired businesses profitably. Furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition which may or may not be consummated. These expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. Reductions in Medicaid or Medicare funding by states or the federal government could significantly reduce our profitability. Our revenues are derived primarily from Medicaid premiums provided by the states in which we conduct business, and Medicare Advantage premiums provided by CMS, an agency of the federal government. Essentially, the federal government and states account for substantially all of our revenue. From time to time the federal government and many states change the level of funding for these health care programs with the consequence of adversely impacting our profitability. State governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their Medicaid programs. Macroeconomic conditions in recent years have and are expected to continue to put pressure on state budgets as the Medicaid eligible population increases. We anticipate this will require government agencies with which we contract to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents As noted above, our Medicare Advantage premium revenues come from CMS and are dependent on federal government funding levels. The 2010 Acts included significant cuts in payments to Medicare Advantage plans and restructured payments to these same plans. The 2010 Acts froze 2011 benchmark rates at 2010 levels so that in 2011, Medicate Advantage Plans did not receive rate increases to account for recent health care cost increases. Additionally, continued government efforts to contain health care related expenditures, such as prescription drug costs, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in decreased funding of the Medicare program, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits, the mandating of additional benefits with no corresponding increase in premium, and/or reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Risks Related to Pending Governmental Investigations and Litigation If we commit a material breach of our deferred prosecution agreement, we will likely be subject to prosecution of one or more criminal offenses, including health care fraud, which would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2009 we entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “DPA”) with the United States Attorney's Office for the Mdiddle District of Florida (the "USAO") and the Florida Attorney General’s Office, resolving previously disclosed investigations by those offices. As previously disclosed, we paid the USAO a total of $80.0 million pursuant to the terms of the DPA. Pursuant to the DPA, the USAO filed a one-count criminal information (the “Information”) in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida (the “Federal Court”), charging us with conspiracy to commit health care fraud against the Florida Medicaid Program in connection with reporting of expenditures under certain community behavioral health contracts, and against the Florida Healthy Kids program, under certain contracts, in violation of 18 U.S.C. Section 1349. The USAO recommended to the Federal Court that the prosecution of us be deferred during the duration of the DPA, which expires May 2012. In the event of a knowing and willful material breach of a provision of the DPA, the USAO has broad discretion to prosecute us through the filed Information or otherwise. We could also be prosecuted by the Florida Attorney General’s office under such circumstances. In light of the provisions of the DPA, any such proceeding would likely result in one or more criminal convictions, including for health care fraud, which, in turn, would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and could result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For more information regarding the DPA, please see Part I, Item 3- Legal Proceedings. The settlement we have reached with certain federal and state agencies relating to their investigations remains pending and the final resolution, or further delay in the final resolution, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On April 26, 2011, we entered into certain settlement agreements which will resolve the inquiries of the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice (the "Civil Division"), the USAO and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut (the “USAO Connecticut”). These settlement agreements are related to four federal qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3729-3733 as well as one state qui tam action filed in Leon County, Florida, which is similar to one of the federal qui tam complaints. The settlement agreements are with (a) the United States, with signatories from the Civil Division, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG-HHS”) and the Civil Divisions of the USAO and the USAO Connecticut (the “Federal Settlement Agreement”) and (b) the following states: Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, New York and Ohio (collectively, the “State Settlement Agreements”). Pursuant to these settlement agreements we have agreed, among other things, to pay a total of $137.5 million, plus interest, over a period of 36 months, and a possible contingent payment of $35.0 million upon the occurrence of certain change in control events. One of the relators has objected to the Federal Settlement Agreement. In the case of an objection, the Federal Court is required to conduct a hearing (a “Fairness Hearing”) to determine whether the proposed settlement is fair, adequate and reasonable under all the circumstances. The Federal Settlement Agreement and the State Settlement Agreements will not be effective until the earlier of (a) the execution of the Federal Settlement Agreement by the objecting relator or (b) entry by the Federal Court of a final order determining that the settlement is fair, adequate and reasonable under all the circumstances. 41 Table of Contents If the objecting relator does not execute the Federal Settlement Agreement and the Federal Court does not approve the settlement at a Fairness Hearing then the actual outcome of these matters may differ materially from the terms of the settlement described above. If the Federal Court determines that the settlement is not fair, adequate and reasonable under all the circumstances, we may be required to pay an amount in excess of the amount contemplated by the settlement agreements. The final resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. For more information regarding the settlement, please see Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. In addition, the pendency of these matters could impair our ability to expand our business and/or to raise additional capital, which may be needed to pay any resulting interest, civil or criminal fines, penalties or other assessments. If we commit a material breach of our corporate integrity agreement, we may be excluded from certain programs, resulting in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On April 26, 2011, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (the “Corporate Integrity Agreement”) with OIG-HHS. The Corporate Integrity Agreement has a term of five years and concludes the previously disclosed matters relating to us under review by OIG-HHS. The Corporate Integrity Agreement requires us to maintain various ethics and compliance programs designed to help ensure our ongoing compliance with federal health care program requirements. The terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement include certain organizational structure requirements, internal monitoring requirements, compliance training, screening processes for new employees, requirements for reporting to OIG-HHS, and the engagement of an independent review organization to review and prepare written reports regarding, among other things, our reporting practices and bid submissions to federal health care programs. If we fail to comply with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement we may be required to pay certain monetary penalties. Furthermore, if we commit a material breach of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, OIG-HHS may exclude us from participating in federal health care programs. Any such exclusion would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses and potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors, officers and associates and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. In August 2010, we entered into an agreement and release with the carriers of our directors and officers (“D&O”) liability insurance relating to coverage we sought for claims relating to the previously disclosed government investigations and related litigation. We agreed to accept immediate payment of $32.5 million, including $6.7 million received by us in prior years, in satisfaction of the $45.0 million face amount of the relevant D&O insurance policies and the carriers agreed to waive any rights they may have to challenge our coverage under the policies. No additional recoveries with respect to such matters are expected under our insurance policies and all expenses incurred by us in the future for these matters will not be further reimbursed by our insurance policies. The agreement and release did not include a $10.0 million face amount policy that we maintain for non-indemnifiable securities claims by directors and officers during the same time period and such policy is not affected by the agreement and release. We currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after January 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after October 2007. We cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. 42 Table of Contents Continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations, or the managed care industry in general, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. As a result of the federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. This negative publicity may harm our relationships with current and future investors, government regulators, associates, members, vendors and providers. Negative publicity may adversely affect our reputation, which could harm our ability to obtain new membership, build or maintain our network of providers, or business in the future. For example, when making award determinations, states frequently consider the plan’s historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation. In most cases where we are bidding for new business we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. As a result, continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding the investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, the managed care industry historically has been subject to negative publicity. This publicity may result in increased legislation, regulation and review of industry practices and, in some cases, litigation. For example, the Obama administration and certain members of Congress have been questioning the profits of health insurance plans and the percentage of premiums paid that are going directly to health care benefits. These inquiries have resulted in news reports that are generally negative to the health insurance industry. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and services, require us to change our products and services and increase regulatory or legal burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 