Item 1A. Risk Factors We will require additional capital to continue operations beyond the third quarter of 2010. The report from our independent registered public accounting firm dated March 23, 2010 and included with this annual report on Form 10-K indicated that factors exist that raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are currently continuing development of our oxidized glutathione-based compounds for the treatment of cancer and hepatitis and seeking to build a product pipeline through acquiring or licensing clinical stage compounds or technologies for oncology indications. We believe that we have adequate cash to fund these activities, including related overhead costs, into the fourth quarter of 2010. Our ability to execute our operating plan beyond early in the fourth quarter of 2010 is dependent on our ability to obtain additional capital, principally through the sale of equity and debt securities, to fund our development activities. We plan to actively pursue financing alternatives during 2010, but there can be no assurance that we will obtain the additional capital necessary to fund our business beyond early in the fourth quarter of 2010. On February 24, 2010, we announced that our Phase 3 clinical trial for NOV-002 in non-small cell lung cancer (the “Phase 3 Trial”) did not meet its primary endpoint of a statistically significant increase in median overall survival. On March 18, 2010, we announced that the secondary endpoints had not been met in the Phase 3 Trial and that we had discontinued development of NOV-002 for NSCLC in combination with first-line paclitaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy. The negative outcome of the Phase 3 Trial, as well as continuing difficult conditions in the capital markets globally, may adversely affect our ability to obtain funding in a timely manner. We are continuously evaluating measures to reduce our costs to preserve existing capital. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funding, we will be required, beginning in mid 2010, to scale back our administrative and clinical development activities and may be required to cease our operations entirely. Our Phase 3 Trial for NOV-002 in advanced non-small cell lung cancer did not meet its primary and secondary endpoints. This could negatively impact our ability to successfully develop NOV-002 for other cancer indications. On February 24, 2010, we announced that our Phase 3 Trial did not meet its primary endpoint of a statistically significant increase in median overall survival. Following evaluation of the detailed trial data, we announced on March 18, 2010 that the secondary endpoints also were not met in the trial and that adding NOV-002 to paclitaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy was not statistically or meaningfully different in terms of efficacy-related endpoints or recovery from chemotherapy toxicity versus chemotherapy alone. The secondary endpoints included progression-free survival, response rate and duration of response, recovery from chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression, determination of immunomodulation, quality of life and safety. While these results are not necessarily predictive of the results that we may experience in clinical trials for NOV-002 in other cancer indications, the results could negatively impact our ability to obtain funding or regulatory approval to pursue further clinical development in NOV-002. If we are unable to pursue further clinical development in NOV-002, our development efforts will be limited to our other drug compound, NOV-205 and other compounds that we are able to acquire or license. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to develop NOV-205 or in our efforts to acquire or license new compounds. If we are unsuccessful in developing our drug compounds or acquiring or licensing new compounds, we may be required to cease our operations. A class action lawsuit has been filed against the Company which could divert management’s attention and harm our business. A purported class action complaint was filed on March 5, 2010 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts by an alleged shareholder on behalf of himself and all others who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock in the period between December 14, 2009 and February 24, 2010, against Novelos and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Harry S. Palmin. The complaint claims that we violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder in connection with alleged disclosures related to the Phase 3 Trial. We believe the allegations are without merit and intend to defend vigorously against the allegations. However, this type of litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, whether or not the claims are ultimately successful, and this could adversely affect our business. 10 We may have difficulty raising additional capital for our future operations in the longer term. We currently generate insignificant revenue from our proposed products or otherwise. We do not know when this will change. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds on the research, development and clinical and pre-clinical testing of our drug compounds. We will require additional funds to conduct research and development, establish and conduct clinical and pre-clinical trials, establish commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and provide for the marketing and distribution of our products. Additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funding is not available to us, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or product launches or marketing efforts, which may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our capital requirements and our ability to meet them depend on many factors, including: · the number of potential products and technologies in development; · continued progress and cost of our research and development programs; · progress with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory clearance; · costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution channels and our ability to sell our drugs; · costs involved in establishing manufacturing capabilities for clinical trial and commercial quantities of our drugs; · competing technological and market developments; · market acceptance of our products; · costs for recruiting and retaining management, employees and consultants; · costs for educating physicians; · our status as a Bulletin-Board-listed company and the prospects for our stock being listed on a national exchange; · uncertainty and economic instability resulting from terrorist acts and other acts of violence or war; and · the condition of capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and globally. We may consume available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding sooner than expected. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through the issuance of warrants, equity or debt financings or executing collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders or otherwise have a material effect on our current or future business prospects. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, we may have to relinquish economic and/or proprietary rights to some of our technologies or products under development that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize by ourselves. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to significantly reduce or refocus our development efforts with regard to our drug compounds. The failure to complete development of our therapeutic technology, to obtain government approvals, including required FDA approvals, or to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could prevent, delay or limit introduction or sale of proposed products and result in failure to achieve revenues or maintain our ongoing business. Our research and development activities and the manufacture and marketing of our intended products are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the United States and abroad. Before receiving FDA clearance to market our proposed products, we will have to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for the patient population for the diseases that are to be treated. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of drugs are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, clinical trials and regulatory approval can take many years to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. 11 In order to be commercially viable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our technologies. For each drug using oxidized glutathione-based compounds, including NOV-002 and NOV-205, we must successfully meet a number of critical developmental milestones including: · demonstrating benefit from delivery of each specific drug for specific medical indications; · demonstrating through pre-clinical and clinical trials that each drug is safe and effective; and · demonstrating that we have established viable Good Manufacturing Practices capable of potential scale-up. The timeframe necessary to achieve these developmental milestones may be long and uncertain, and we may not successfully complete these milestones for any of our intended products in development. In addition to the risks previously discussed, our technology is subject to developmental risks that include the following: · uncertainties arising from the rapidly growing scientific aspects of drug therapies and potential treatments; · uncertainties arising as a result of the broad array of alternative potential treatments related to cancer, hepatitis and other diseases; and · anticipated expense and time believed to be associated with the development and regulatory approval of treatments for cancer, hepatitis and other diseases. In order to conduct the clinical trials that are necessary to obtain approval by the FDA to market a product, it is necessary to receive clearance from the FDA to conduct such clinical trials. The FDA can halt clinical trials at any time for safety reasons or because we or our clinical investigators do not follow the FDA’s requirements for conducting clinical trials. If we are unable to receive clearance to conduct clinical trials for a product, or the trials are halted by the FDA, we will not be able to achieve any revenue from such product in the U.S, as it is illegal to sell any drug for use in humans in the U.S. without FDA approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances. Data already obtained, or obtained in the future, from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, pre-clinical and clinical data are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of an intended product under development could delay or prevent regulatory clearance of the potential drug, which would result in delays to commercialization and could materially harm our business. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our drugs, and our proposed drugs may not be approved for marketing. We may encounter delays or rejections based on additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. We may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. Sales of our products outside the U.S. would be subject to foreign regulatory approvals that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be shorter or longer than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for foreign licensing may differ from FDA requirements. We may be unable to obtain requisite approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, and even if obtained, such approvals may not be on a timely basis, or they may not cover the uses that we request. 12 Even if we do ultimately receive FDA approval for any of our products, these products will be subject to extensive ongoing regulation, including regulations governing manufacturing, labeling, packaging, testing, dispensing, prescription and procurement quotas, record keeping, reporting, handling, shipment and disposal of any such drug. Failure to obtain and maintain required registrations or to comply with any applicable regulations could further delay or preclude development and commercialization of our drugs and subject us to enforcement action. Our drugs or technology may not gain FDA approval in clinical trials or be effective as a therapeutic agent, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. In order to obtain regulatory approvals, we must demonstrate that each drug is safe and effective for use in humans and functions as a therapeutic against the effects of a disease or other physiological response. While we have experienced positive preliminary results in the earlier stage trials for certain indications in the U.S., in February 2010, we announced that our Phase 3 Trial did not meet its primary endpoint of a statistically significant increase in median overall survival and in March 2010 we announced that the secondary endpoints were not met. There can be no assurance that we can demonstrate that these products are safe or effective in additional advanced clinical trials for other indications. We are also not able to give assurances that the positive results of certain of the tests already conducted can be repeated or that further testing will support our applications for regulatory approval. As a result, our drug and technology research program may be curtailed, redirected or eliminated at any time. If this occurs, we may have to cease our operations entirely. There is no guarantee that we will ever generate substantial revenue or become profitable even if one or more of our drugs are approved for commercialization. We expect to incur operating losses over the next several years as we continue to incur costs for research and development and clinical trials. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with others, to complete the development of, obtain required regulatory approvals for and manufacture, market and sell our proposed products. Development is costly and requires significant investment. In addition, if we choose to license or obtain the assignment of rights to additional drugs, the license fees for such drugs may increase our costs. To date, we have not generated any revenue from the commercial sale of our proposed products or any drugs and do not expect to receive any such revenue in the near future. Our primary activity to date has been research and development. A substantial portion of the research results and observations on which we rely were performed by third parties at those parties’ sole or shared cost and expense. We cannot be certain as to when or whether commercialization and marketing our proposed products in development will occur, and we do not expect to generate sufficient revenues, from proposed product sales or otherwise, to cover our expenses or achieve profitability in the near future. We rely solely on research and manufacturing facilities at various universities, hospitals, contract research organizations and contract manufacturers for all of our research, development, and manufacturing, which could be materially delayed should we lose access to those facilities. At the present time, we have no research, development or manufacturing facilities of our own. We are entirely dependent on contracting with third parties to use their facilities to conduct research, development and manufacturing. The lack of facilities of our own in which to conduct research, development and manufacturing may delay or impair our ability to gain FDA approval and commercialization of our drug delivery technology and products. We believe that we have a good working relationship with our contractors. However, should the situation change, we may be required to relocate these activities on short notice, and we do not currently have access to alternate facilities to which we could relocate our research, development and/or manufacturing activities. The cost and time to establish or locate an alternate research, development and/or manufacturing facility to develop our technology would be substantial and would delay obtaining FDA approval and commercializing our products. 13 We are dependent on our collaborative arrangements for the development of our technologies and business development, exposing us to the risk of reliance on the viability of third parties. In conducting our research, development and manufacturing activities, we rely and expect to continue to rely on numerous collaborative arrangements with universities, hospitals, governmental agencies, charitable foundations, manufacturers and others. The loss of any of these arrangements, or failure to perform under any of these arrangements, by any of these entities, may substantially disrupt or delay our research, development and manufacturing activities, including our anticipated clinical trials. We may rely on third-party contract research organizations, service providers and suppliers to support development and clinical testing of our products. Failure of any of these contractors to provide the required services in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could materially delay the development and approval of our products, increase our expenses and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our collaboration agreements with Mundipharma and Lee’s Pharm for the development, manufacture and commercialization of NOV-002 in Europe, Asia and Australia (and NOV-205 in the Chinese Territory), the commercial value of our products in those territories will largely be dependent on the ability of these collaborators to perform. Purdue has obtained certain rights that may discourage third parties from entering into discussions with us to acquire rights to NOV-002 for the United States. Purdue has been granted a right of first refusal on bona fide offers to obtain NOV-002 Rights in the United States received from third parties and approved by our board of directors. Under Purdue’s right of first refusal, Purdue would have 30 days to enter into a definitive agreement with Novelos on terms representing the same economic benefit for Novelos as in the third-party offer. The right of first refusal terminates only upon specified business combinations. Novelos has separately entered into letter agreements with Mundipharma and an independent associated company providing for a conditional exclusive right to negotiate for, and a conditional right of first refusal with respect to third party offers to obtain NOV-002 Rights (i) for Mexico, Central America, South America and the Caribbean and (ii) for Canada, respectively. The existence of these rights may discourage other possible strategic partners from entering into discussions with us to obtain NOV-002 Rights in North and South America. We are exposed to product, clinical and preclinical liability risks that could create a substantial financial burden should we be sued. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of pharmaceutical products that we or our current or potential collaborators may develop and then subsequently sell may cause us to bear a portion of or all product liability risks. While we carry an insurance policy covering up to $5,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate of liability incurred in connection with such claims should they arise, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to cover all situations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such insurance, or additional insurance, if required, will be available in the future or, if available, will be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, our current and potential partners with whom we have collaborative agreements or our future licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have a net worth sufficient to satisfy any product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain and failure to achieve market acceptance will prevent or delay our ability to generate revenues. Our future financial performance will depend, at least in part, on the introduction and customer acceptance of our proposed products. Even if approved for marketing by the necessary regulatory authorities, our products may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors including: · the receipt of regulatory clearance of marketing claims for the uses that we are developing; 14 · the establishment and demonstration of the advantages, safety and efficacy of our technologies; · pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other health plan administrators; · our ability to attract corporate partners, including pharmaceutical companies, to assist in commercializing our intended products; and · our ability to market our products. Physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, use or recommend any of our products. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize and market our proposed products as planned, we may not achieve any market acceptance or generate revenue. We may face litigation from third parties who claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights, particularly because there is often substantial uncertainty about the validity and breadth of medical patents. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our technologies, products or activities infringe on the intellectual property rights of others or that we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents and the breadth and scope of trade-secret protection involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial and managerial resources and could harm our reputation. Most of our license agreements would likely require that we pay the costs associated with defending this type of litigation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: · cease selling, incorporating or using any of our technologies and/or products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or · redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming. If we are unable to protect or enforce our rights to intellectual property adequately or to secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable rights, experience reduced market share, assuming any, or incur costly litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to obtain licenses to patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others will be important to our commercializing any products under development. Therefore, any disruption in access to the technology could substantially delay the development of our technology. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that involve licensing agreements, including ours, are frequently uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued or in subsequent legal proceedings. Consequently, our patent applications and any issued and licensed patents may not provide protection against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged or circumvented. Our competitors may also independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued or licensed to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law. We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we generally require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology. 15 We may have to resort to litigation to protect our rights for certain intellectual property, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending our rights is expensive, could cause diversion of our resources and may not prove successful. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technology to develop or sell competing products. We have limited manufacturing experience. Even if our products are approved for manufacture and sale by applicable regulatory authorities, we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities at an acceptable cost, and our contract manufacturers could experience shut-downs or delays. We remain in the research and development and clinical and pre-clinical trial phase of product commercialization. Accordingly, if our products are approved for commercial sale, we will need to establish the capability to commercially manufacture our products in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. We have limited experience in establishing, supervising and conducting commercial manufacturing. If we fail to adequately establish, supervise and conduct all aspects of the manufacturing processes, we may not be able to commercialize our products. We presently plan to rely on third-party contractors to manufacture our products. This may expose us to the risks of not being able to directly oversee the production and quality of the manufacturing process. Furthermore, these contractors, whether foreign or domestic, may experience regulatory compliance difficulties, mechanical shutdowns, employee strikes or other unforeseeable acts that may delay production. Due to our limited marketing, sales and distribution experience, we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to sell our products, enter into relationships with third parties or develop a direct sales organization. We have not yet had to establish marketing, sales or distribution capabilities for our proposed products. Until such time as our products are further along in the regulatory process, we will not devote any meaningful time and resources to this effort. At the appropriate time, we intend to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell our products. We have limited experience in developing, training or managing a sales force. If we choose to establish a direct sales force, we may incur substantial additional expenses in developing, training and managing such an organization. We may be unable to build a sales force on a cost-effective basis or at all. Any such direct marketing and sales efforts may prove to be unsuccessful. In addition, we will compete with many other companies that currently have extensive marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete against these other companies. We may be unable to establish a sufficient sales and marketing organization on a timely basis, if at all. If we choose to enter into agreements with third parties to sell our products, we may be unable to establish or maintain third-party relationships on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. In addition, these third parties may have similar or more established relationships with our competitors. We may be unable to engage qualified distributors. Even if engaged, these distributors may: · fail to adequately market our products; · fail to satisfy financial or contractual obligations to us; · offer, design, manufacture or promote competing products; or · cease operations with little or no notice. If we fail to develop sales, marketing and distribution channels, we would experience delays in product sales and incur increased costs, which would harm our financial results. 16 If we are unable to convince physicians of the benefits of our intended products, we may incur delays or additional expense in our attempt to establish market acceptance. Achieving broad use of our products may require physicians to be informed regarding these products and their intended benefits. The time and cost of such an educational process may be substantial. Inability to successfully carry out this physician education process may adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We may be unable to timely educate physicians regarding our intended products in sufficient numbers to achieve our marketing plans or to achieve product acceptance. Any delay in physician education may materially delay or reduce demand for our products. In addition, we may expend significant funds towards physician education before any acceptance or demand for our products is created, if at all. The market for our products is rapidly changing and competitive, and new therapeutics, new drugs and new treatments that may be developed by others could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our technologies and intended products noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Most of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities and budgets than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase our competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. We operate with limited day-to-day business management, serve as a vehicle to hold certain technology for possible future exploration, and have been and will continue to be engaged in the development of new drugs and therapeutic technologies. As a result, our resources are limited and we may experience management, operational or technical challenges inherent in such activities and novel technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competition. Some of these technologies may accomplish therapeutic effects similar to those of our technology, but through different means. Our competitors may develop drugs and drug delivery technologies that are more effective than our intended products and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to us. The potential widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our products even if they are commercialized. Many of our targeted diseases and conditions can also be treated by other medication or drug delivery technologies. These treatments may be widely accepted in medical communities and have a longer history of use. The established use of these competitive drugs may limit the potential for our technologies and products to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new healthcare reform measures are adopted, it could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect our ability to generate future revenues and achieve profitability, including by limiting the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payers. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payers of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products, should we be successful in commercializing them, and this would negatively affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. 17 New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, that relate to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for healthcare products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing of healthcare products and services, also may limit our potential revenue and may require us to revise our research and development programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for several reasons, including policies advanced by the current or future executive administrations in the U.S., new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the U.S., changes in federal health care policy are being considered by Congress this year. Some of these proposed reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs). Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical drugs and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs that could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and drugs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or change government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our drugs. The cost containment measures that healthcare payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform could materially harm our ability to operate profitably. We depend on key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time, and our success will depend on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel. Our success will depend to a significant degree on the continued services of our key management and advisors. There can be no assurance that these individuals will continue to provide service to us. Furthermore, as a result of the decline in stock price following the announcement of the negative results of our Phase 3 Trial, many of the stock options held by key employees and advisors have exercise prices in excess of current market prices, thus significantly diminishing their incentive effect. We may be required to restructure stock compensation arrangements in order to retain key management and advisors. In addition, our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain other highly skilled personnel. We may be unable to recruit such personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of services of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could result in delays in development or approval of our products, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. Compliance with changing corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expense. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and internal controls, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and, in the event we seek and are approved for listing on a registered national securities exchange, the stock exchange rules, will require an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to continue to invest all resources reasonably necessary to comply with evolving standards, which may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 we may be required to include an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting which may result in additional costs. 18 In the time that our common stock has traded, our stock price has experienced price fluctuations. There can be no assurance that the market price for our common stock will remain at its current level and a decrease in the market price could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by one or more of the following factors: · announcements or press releases relating to the biopharmaceutical sector or to our own business or prospects; · regulatory, legislative, or other developments affecting us or the healthcare industry generally; · the dilutive effect of conversion of our Series E or Series C preferred stock into common stock or the exercise of options and warrants; · sales by those financing our company through convertible securities and warrants of the underlying common stock, when it is registered with the SEC and may be sold into the public market, immediately upon conversion or exercise; and · market conditions specific to biopharmaceutical companies, the healthcare industry and the stock market generally. There may be a limited public market for our securities; we may fail to qualify for listing on certain national securities exchanges. Our common stock currently does not meet the requirements for initial listing on a registered stock exchange. Trading in our common stock continues to be conducted on the electronic bulletin board in the over-the-counter market and in what are commonly referred to as “pink sheets.” As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and our common stock may be less attractive for margin loans, for investment by financial institutions, as consideration in future capital raising transactions or other purposes. Our common stock constitutes a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult to resell shares of our common stock. Our common stock constitutes a “penny stock” under applicable SEC rules. These rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as “established customers” or “accredited investors.” For example, broker-dealers must determine the appropriateness for non-qualifying persons of investments in penny stocks and make special disclosures concerning the risks of investments in penny stocks. Many brokerage firms will discourage or refrain from recommending investments in penny stocks. Most institutional investors will not invest in penny stocks. In addition, many individual investors will not invest in penny stocks due, among other reasons, to the increased financial risk generally associated with these investments. For these reasons, the fact that our common stock is a penny stock may limit the market for our common stock and, consequently, the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. Although our common stock had recently been trading at above its historic levels, our common stock remained a “penny stock” during that time because our tangible net assets are insufficient to exclude our common stock from that designation. We can give no assurance at what time, if ever, our common stock will cease to be a “penny stock.” 19 Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have substantial holdings, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control favored by our other stockholders. Holders of our Series E preferred stock beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 45% of our outstanding voting shares on an as-converted basis (subject to certain blocking provisions that may be waived with 61 days’ notice). In addition, our executive officers, directors and other principal stockholders own in excess of 2% of our outstanding voting shares calculated on the same basis. The interests of our current officers, directors and Series E investors may differ from the interests of other stockholders. Further, our current officers, directors and Series E investors may have the ability to significantly affect the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the following actions: · the election of directors; · the amendment of charter documents; · issuance of blank-check preferred or convertible stock, notes or instruments of indebtedness which may have conversion, liquidation and similar features, or completion of other financing arrangements including certain issuances of common stock; or · the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets (and in the case of licensing, any material intellectual property), or merger with a publicly-traded shell or other company. Our common stock could be further diluted as the result of the issuance of additional shares of common stock, convertible securities, warrants or options. In the past, we have issued common stock, convertible securities, such as convertible preferred stock, and warrants in order to raise money. We have also issued options and warrants as compensation for services and incentive compensation for our employees and directors. We have shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion and exercise of these securities and may increase the shares reserved for these purposes in the future. Our issuance of additional common stock, convertible securities, options and warrants could affect the rights of our stockholders, could reduce the market price of our common stock or could result in adjustments to conversion or exercise prices of outstanding preferred stock and warrants (resulting in these securities becoming convertible into or exercisable for, as the case may be, a greater number of shares of our common stock), or could obligate us to issue additional shares of common stock to certain of our stockholders. We are prohibited from taking certain actions and entering into certain transactions without the consent of holders of our Series E preferred stock. For as long as any shares of Series E preferred stock remain outstanding we are prohibited from taking certain actions or entering into certain transactions without the prior consent of specific holders of outstanding shares of Series E preferred stock (currently consisting of Xmark Opportunity Fund, L.P., Xmark Opportunity Fund, Ltd., and Xmark JV Investment Partners, LLC (collectively, the “Xmark Funds”), and Purdue). We are prohibited from paying dividends to common stockholders, amending our certificate of incorporation or by-laws, issuing any equity security or any security convertible into or exercisable for any equity security at a price of $0.65 or less or with rights senior to the Series E preferred stock (except for certain exempted issuances), increasing the number of shares of Series E preferred stock or issuing any additional shares of Series E preferred stock other than the 735 shares designated in the Series E Certificate of Designations, or changing the number of our directors. We are also prohibited from entering into certain transactions such as: · selling or otherwise granting any rights with respect to all or substantially all of our assets (and in the case of licensing, any material intellectual property) or the Company's business and we shall not enter into a merger or consolidation with another company unless we are the surviving corporation, the Series E preferred stock remains outstanding, there are no changes to the rights and preferences of the Series E preferred stock and there is not created any new class of capital stock senior to the Series E preferred stock; · redeeming or repurchasing any capital stock other than Series E preferred stock or the related warrants; or 20 · incurring any new debt for borrowed money in excess of $500,000. Even though our board of directors may determine that any of these actions are in the best interest of the Company or our shareholders, we may be unable to complete them if we do not get the approval of specific holders of the outstanding shares of Series E preferred stock. The interests of the holders of Series E preferred stock may differ from those of stockholders generally. Moreover, the right of first refusal granted to Purdue and its independent associated companies under the August 2009 Purchase Agreement and the collaboration agreement with Mundipharma (our collaborator on most non-U.S. development, manufacturing and commercialization of NOV-002) have the potential of creating situations where the interests of the Company and those of Purdue may conflict. If we are unable to obtain consent from each of the holders identified above, we may be unable to complete actions or transactions that our board of directors has determined are in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders. We have not paid dividends to preferred stockholders totaling $2,903,000 as of December 31, 2009 and we may be unable to pay dividends to preferred stockholders when due in future periods. Our ability to pay cash dividends on stated future dividend payment dates will be dependent on a number of factors including the timing of future financings and the amount of net losses in future periods. We anticipate that future dividends on Series E preferred stock will be paid by issuing shares of common stock or additional shares of Series E preferred stock, which will result in additional dilution to existing shareholders. We anticipate that the accrued unpaid dividend on our Series C preferred stock ($710,000 at December 31, 2009) will continue to accumulate. During 2009, an aggregate of approximately $486,000 in accumulated dividends were converted into shares of common stock in connection with the conversion of the associated shares of preferred stock. 21 Item 