ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We are required to pay gathering fees to Atlas Pipeline pursuant to our contribution agreement with Atlas Energy equal to the difference between the gathering fee payable and the amount Atlas Energy receives from its investment partnerships for gathering services out of our own resources. Under our contribution agreement with Atlas Energy, we assumed Atlas Energy’s obligation to pay gathering fees to Atlas Pipeline pursuant to the master natural gas gathering agreement, and Atlas Energy agreed to pay us the gathering fees it receives from its investment partnerships and fees associated with production to its interest. The gathering fees payable to Atlas Pipeline generally exceed the amount Atlas Energy receives from its investment partnerships for gathering services. For the year ended December 31, 2008, this excess amount was approximately $13.3 million. We may be required to indemnify Atlas Energy for claims relating to activities before our contribution of assets to it. Pursuant to our contribution agreement with Atlas Energy, we indemnified Atlas Energy through December 18, 2007 against certain potential environmental liabilities associated with the operation of the assets we contributed to it and occurring before December 18, 2006 and against claims for covered environmental liabilities made before December 18, 2010. Our obligation will not exceed $25.0 million, and we will not have any indemnification obligation until Atlas Energy’s losses exceed $500,000 in the aggregate, and then only to the extent such aggregate losses exceed $500,000. Additionally, we will indemnify Atlas Energy for losses attributable to title defects to the oil and gas property interests until December 18, 2009, and indefinitely for losses attributable to retained liabilities and income taxes attributable to pre-closing operations and the formation transactions. We could be liable for taxes in connection with our spin-off from Resource America. In connection with our initial public offering, Resource America and we entered into a tax matters agreement which governs our respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits. In general, under the tax matters agreement: • Resource America is responsible for any U.S. federal income taxes of the affiliated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes of which Resource America is the common parent. With respect to any periods beginning after our initial offering, we are responsible for any U.S. federal income taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries. 30 Table of Contents • Resource America is responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes reportable on a consolidated, combined or unitary return that includes Resource America or one of its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or one of our subsidiaries, on the other hand. However, in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries are included in such a group for U.S. state or local income tax purposes for periods (or portions thereof) beginning after the date of the initial public offering, we are responsible for our portion of such income tax liability as if we and our subsidiaries had filed a separate tax return that included only us and our subsidiaries for that period (or portion of a period). • Resource America is responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes reportable on returns that include only Resource America and its subsidiaries (excluding us and our subsidiaries), and we are responsible for any U.S. state or local income taxes filed on returns that include only us and our subsidiaries. Risks Related to Atlas Energy Atlas Energy may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay quarterly distributions to us following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. Atlas Energy may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the quarterly distributions. Under the terms of its limited liability company agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by its operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that its board of directors establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unit holders and the holders of the management incentive interests. The amount of cash it can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas and oil it produces; • the price at which it sells its natural gas and oil; • the level of its operating costs; • its ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; • results of its hedging activities; • the level of its interest expense, which depends on the amount of its indebtedness and the interest payable on it; and • the level of its capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will receive from its distributions will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • its ability to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • timing and collectability of receivables; • restrictions on distributions imposed by lenders; • the amount of its estimated maintenance capital expenditures; • prevailing economic conditions; and 31 Table of Contents • the amount of cash reserves established by its board of directors for the proper conduct of its business. As a result of these factors, the amount of cash Atlas Energy distributes in any quarter to us may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be significantly less than the initial quarterly distribution amount. If commodity prices decline significantly, Atlas Energy’s cash flow from operations will decline and it may have to lower its distributions or may not be able to pay distributions at all. Atlas Energy’s revenue, profitability and cash flow substantially depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The natural gas and oil markets are very volatile and a drop in prices can significantly affect its financial results and impede its growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices will have a significant impact on the value of its reserves and on its cash flow. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond its control, such as: • the level of the domestic and foreign supply and demand; • the price and level of foreign imports; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions and fluctuating and seasonal demand; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the cost, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, the prices of natural gas and oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $13.11 per MMBtu to a low of $6.47 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $134.02 per Bbl to a low of $42.04 per Bbl. Unless Atlas Energy replaces its reserves, its reserves and production will decline, which would reduce its cash flow from operations and impair its ability to make distributions to us. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Based on Atlas Energy’s December 31, 2008 reserve report, its average annual decline rate for proved developed producing reserves is approximately 7.8% during the first five years, approximately 5.3% in the next five years and less than 5.5% thereafter. Because ATN’s total estimated proved reserves include proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2008, production will decline at this rate even if those proved undeveloped reserves are developed and the wells produce as expected. This rate of decline will change if production from Atlas Energy’s existing wells declines in a different manner than it has estimated and can change when it drills additional wells, makes acquisitions 32 Table of Contents and under other circumstances. Thus, Atlas Energy’s future natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, its cash flow and income are highly dependent on its success in efficiently developing and exploiting its current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Atlas Energy’s ability to find and acquire additional recoverable reserves to replace current and future production at acceptable costs depends on its generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, principally its sponsored investment partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section. Atlas Energy’s estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of its reserves. Underground accumulations of natural gas and oil cannot be measured in an exact way. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Atlas Energy’s independent petroleum engineers prepare estimates of its proved reserves. Over time, its internal engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of its reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, it makes certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect its estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Atlas Energy’s PV-10 is calculated using natural gas prices that include its physical hedges but not its financial hedges. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which its reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas and oil it ultimately recover being different from its reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from Atlas Energy’s proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of its estimated natural gas reserves. Atlas Energy bases the estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from its natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices it receives for natural gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • the amount and timing of its capital expenditures; • supply of and demand for natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both its production and its incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor it uses when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with it or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any significant variance in its assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of PV-10, and its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, its reserves or PV-10 may be revised downward or upward based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for its production can reduce the estimated volumes of its reserves because the economic life of its wells could end sooner. Similarly, a decline in market prices for natural gas or oil may reduce its PV-10. Any of these negative effects on its reserves or PV-10 may decrease the value of our investment in it. Atlas Energy’s operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce its cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter it is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to us than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. 33 Table of Contents Atlas Energy will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain its capital asset base over the long term. These maintenance capital expenditures may include the drilling and completion of additional wells to offset the production decline from its producing properties or additions to its inventory of unproved or proved reserves. These expenditures could increase as a result of: • changes in its reserves; • changes in natural gas prices; • changes in labor and drilling costs; • its ability to acquire, locate and produce reserves; • changes in leasehold acquisition costs; and • government regulations relating to safety and the environment. Atlas Energy’s significant maintenance capital expenditures will reduce the amount of cash it has available for distribution to us. In addition, its actual maintenance capital expenditures will vary from quarter to quarter. Its limited liability company agreement requires it to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and approval by its board of directors, including a majority of its conflicts committee, at least once a year. In years when its estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to us will be lower than if it deducted actual maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. If it underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, it may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed its previous estimates. Over time, if it does not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have available sufficient sources of financing and make sufficient expenditures to maintain its capital asset base, it will be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and may have to reduce its distributions. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • significant increases in its indebtedness and working capital requirements; • an inability to integrate successfully or timely the businesses it acquires; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • increased demands on existing personnel; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, Atlas Energy’s future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely affect our future growth and our ability to increase distributions. 34 Table of Contents Atlas Energy may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from any future acquisitions with its operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. ATN has an active, on-going program to identify other potential acquisitions. The integration of previously independent operations can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems, as well as any operations it may acquire in the future, with it include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating operational and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in its indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with an acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand its operations could harm its business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in its gross margin and cash flows. The DTE Gas & Oil acquisition has substantially changed Atlas Energy’s business, making it difficult to evaluate our business based upon our historical financial information. The June 2007 DTE Gas & Oil acquisition has significantly increased Atlas Energy’s size, redefined its business plan, expanded its geographic market and resulted in large increases to its revenues and expenses. As a result of this acquisition, and Atlas Energy’s continued plan to acquire and integrate additional companies that it believes present attractive opportunities, its financial results for any period or changes in its results across periods may continue to dramatically change. Its historical financial results, therefore, should not be relied upon to accurately predict its future operating results, thereby making the evaluation of its business more difficult. Atlas Energy has limited experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale, less information regarding reserves and decline rates in the Marcellus Shale than in other areas of its Appalachian operations and wells drilled to the Marcellus Shale will be deeper, more expensive and more susceptible to mechanical problems in drilling and completing than wells in the other areas. Atlas Energy has limited experience in drilling development wells to the Marcellus Shale. As of January 15 2009, Atlas Energy had drilled 121 wells to the Marcellus Shale, 121 of which have been turned on-line, but those wells have been producing for only a short period of time. Other operators in the Appalachian Basin also have limited experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale. Thus, Atlas Energy has much less information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and the production decline rate in the Marcellus Shale than it has in our other areas of operation. In addition, the wells to be drilled in the Marcellus Shale will be drilled deeper than its other primary areas, which makes the Marcellus Shale wells more expensive to drill and complete. The wells will also be more susceptible to mechanical problems associated with the drilling and completion of the wells, such as casing collapse and lost equipment in the wellbore. In addition, the fracturing of the Marcellus Shale will be more extensive and complicated than fracturing the geological formations in Atlas Energy’s other areas of operation and requires greater volumes of water than conventional gas wells. The management of water and the treatment of produced water from Marcellus Shale wells may be more costly than the management of produced water from other geologic formations. Atlas Energy has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position 35 Table of Contents ATN currently has a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of February 1, 2009, it had total debt of approximately $873.7 million, consisting of $406.7 million of senior notes and $467.0 million of borrowings under its credit facility. Atlas Energy may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Its substantial indebtedness may: • make it difficult for ATN to satisfy its financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the senior notes and its other indebtedness; • limit its ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • limit its ability to use its cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • require it to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and industry; • place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its less leveraged competitors; and • increase its vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Atlas Energy’s ability to service its indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond its control. If its operating results are not sufficient to service its current or future indebtedness, it will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. It may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. Covenants in Atlas Energy’s debt agreements restrict its business in many ways. The indenture governing ATN’s senior notes and its credit facility contain various covenants that limit its ability and/or its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from its subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of its subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of its assets to, another person. In addition, its credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requires it to maintain specified financial ratios. ATN’s ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond its control, and it may be unable to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under its credit facility and/or the senior notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under its credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under its credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If ATN were unable to 36 Table of Contents repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. ATN has pledged a significant portion of its assets as collateral under its credit facility. If the lenders under its credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, ATN may not have sufficient assets to repay its credit facility and its other indebtedness, including the notes. ATN’s borrowings under its credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose it to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, ATN’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and its net income would decrease. Changes in tax laws may impair ATN’s ability to obtain capital funds through investment partnerships. Under current federal tax laws, there are tax benefits to investing in investment partnerships such as those ATN sponsors, including deductions for intangible drilling costs and depletion deductions. Changes to federal tax law that reduce or eliminate these benefits may make investment in ATN’s investment partnerships less attractive and, thus, reduce its ability to obtain funding from this significant source of capital funds. Recently proposed severance taxes in Pennsylvania could materially increase ATN’s liabilities. In 2008, ATN’s liabilities for severance taxes in the states in which we operate, other than Pennsylvania, were approximately $12.2 million. While Pennsylvania has historically not imposed a severance tax, with a focus on its budget deficit and the increasing exploitation of the Marcellus Shale, Pennsylvania’s governor recently proposed a tax of 5% of the value of natural gas at the wellhead plus $0.047 per Mcf beginning October 1, 2009. If adopted, these taxes may materially increase ATN’s operating costs in Pennsylvania. Atlas Energy may not be able to continue to raise funds through its investment partnerships at the levels it has recently experienced, which may in turn restrict its ability to maintain its drilling activity at the levels recently experienced. Atlas Energy has sponsored limited and general partnerships to raise funds from investors to finance its development drilling activities in Appalachia. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we began development drilling activities for us and our partnership investors in Indiana. Accordingly, the amount of development activities it undertakes depends in large part upon its ability to obtain investor subscriptions to invest in these partnerships. During the past three years it has raised successively larger amounts of funds through these investment partnerships, raising $218.5 million, $363.3 million and $438.4 million in calendar years 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. In the future, Atlas Energy may not be successful in raising funds through these investment partnerships at the same levels it has recently experienced, and it also may not be successful in increasing the amount of funds it raises as it has done in recent years. Atlas Energy’s ability to raise funds through its investment partnerships depends in large part upon the perception of investors of their potential return on their investment and their tax benefits from investing in them, which perception is influenced significantly by Atlas Energy’s historical track record of generating returns and tax benefits to the investors in its existing partnerships. In the event that Atlas Energy’s investment partnerships do not achieve satisfactory returns on investment or the anticipated tax benefits, it may have difficulty in continuing to increase the amount of funds it raises through these partnerships or in maintaining the level of funds it has recently raised through its partnerships. In this event, Atlas Energy may need to obtain financing for its drilling activities on a less attractive basis than the financing it realized through these partnerships or it may determine to reduce drilling activity. Atlas Energy’s fee-based revenues may decline if it is unsuccessful in continuing to sponsor investment partnerships, and its fee-based revenue may not increase at the same rate as recently experienced if it is unable to raise funds at the same or higher levels as it has recently experienced. Atlas Energy’s fee-based revenues are based on the number of investment partnerships it sponsors and the number of partnerships and wells it manages or operates. If it is unsuccessful in sponsoring future investment partnerships, its fee-based revenues may decline. Additionally, its fee-based revenue may not increase at the same rate as recently experienced if it is unable to raise funds at the same or higher levels as it has recently experienced. Atlas Energy’s revenues may decrease if investors in its investment partnerships do not receive a minimum return. Atlas Energy has agreed to subordinate up to 50% of its share of production revenues to specified returns to the investor partners in its investment partnerships, typically 10% per year for the first five years of distributions. Thus, Atlas Energy’s revenues from a particular partnership will decrease if it does not achieve the specified minimum return and its ability to make distributions to unit holders may be impaired. It has not subordinated its share of revenues from any of its investment partnerships since March 2005, but did subordinate $91,000 in 2005 and $335,000 in 2004. 37 Table of Contents Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, which may hinder Atlas Energy’s ability to acquire gas and oil properties and companies and to obtain capital, contract for drilling equipment and secure trained personnel. Atlas Energy operates in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and other natural gas and oil companies, attracting capital through its investment partnerships, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Atlas Energy will also compete with the exploration and production divisions of public utility companies for natural gas and oil property acquisitions. Atlas Energy’s competitors may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and drilling equipment and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than its financial or personnel resources permit. Moreover, Atlas Energy’s competitors for investment capital may have better track records in their programs, lower costs or better connections in the securities industry segment that markets oil and gas investment programs than it does. All of these challenges could make it more difficult for it to execute its growth strategy. It may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring leasehold acreage or prospective reserves or in raising additional capital. Furthermore, competition arises not only from numerous domestic and foreign sources of natural gas and oil but also from other industries that supply alternative sources of energy. Competition is intense for the acquisition of leases considered favorable for the development of natural gas and oil in commercial quantities. Product availability and price are the principal means of competition in selling natural gas and oil. Many of its competitors possess greater financial and other resources than it does, which may enable them to identify and acquire desirable properties and market their natural gas and oil production more effectively than Atlas Energy does. Atlas Energy depends on certain key customers for sales of its natural gas. To the extent these customers reduce the volumes of natural gas they purchase from Atlas Energy, its revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. In Appalachia, its natural gas is sold under contracts with various purchasers. Under a natural gas supply agreement with Hess Corporation, which expires on March 31, 2009, Hess Corporation has a last right of refusal to buy all of the natural gas produced and delivered by Atlas Energy’s affiliates, and it including its investment partnerships. During the year ended December 31, 2008 natural gas sales to Hess Corporation accounted for approximately 10% of its total Appalachian oil and gas revenues. In Michigan, during year ended December 31, 2008, gas under contracts to a former affiliate of Atlas Gas & Oil, which expire at various dates through 2012, accounted for approximately 49% of its total Michigan oil and gas revenues. To the extent these and other key customers reduce the amount of natural gas they purchase from Atlas Energy, its revenues and cash available for distributions to unit holders could temporarily decline in the event it is unable to sell to additional purchasers. Atlas Energy’s Appalachia business depends on the gathering and transportation facilities of Atlas Pipeline. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with its ability to market the natural gas it produces and could reduce its revenues and cash available for distribution. Atlas Pipeline gathers more than 90% of Atlas Energy’s current Appalachia production and approximately 50% of its total production. The marketability of its natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by Atlas Pipeline and other third parties. The amount of natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in circumstances such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance or excessive pressure or physical damage to the gathering or transportation system. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews could delay Atlas Energy’s operations. Higher natural gas and oil prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Over the past three years, Atlas Energy and other natural gas and oil companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict its ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations which it currently has planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce its revenues. Because Atlas Energy handles natural gas and oil, it may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. 38 Table of Contents The operations of Atlas Energy’s wells and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: • the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; • RCRA and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste, including produced waters, from its facilities; and • CERCLA and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by Atlas Energy or at locations to which it has sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is an inherent risk that Atlas Energy may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of its business and the substances it handles. For example, an accidental release from one of its wells could subject it to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies may be enacted or adopted and could significantly increase its compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Atlas Energy may not be able to recover remediation costs under its insurance policies. Many of Atlas Energy’s leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Atlas Energy’s key project areas are located in active drilling areas in the Appalachian Basin. As a result, many of its leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of natural gas in these areas. Atlas Energy’s identified drilling location inventories are susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of its drilling activities, which may result in lower cash from operations. Its management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on its existing acreage. As of December 31, 2008, Atlas Energy had identified over 3,626 potential drilling locations in Appalachia. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of its growth strategy. Its ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Of the 3,626 potential shallow drilling locations, Atlas Energy’s independent petroleum engineering consultants have not assigned any proved reserves to the 358 proved undeveloped locations. Of the remaining drilling locations it has identified there may exist greater uncertainty with respect to the success of drilling wells at these drilling locations. Its final determination on whether to drill any of its drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of its drilling activities with respect to its proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, it does not know if the numerous drilling locations it has identified will be drilled within its expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if it will be able to produce natural gas and oil from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, its actual drilling activities may materially differ from its anticipated drilling activities. Some of Atlas Energy’s undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. Leases covering approximately 85,140 of Atlas Energy’s 422,900 net acres, or 20%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2009. An additional 33% that are scheduled to expire in the years 2010 and 2011. If Atlas Energy is unable to renew these leases or any leases scheduled for expiration beyond December 31, 2009, on favorable terms, it will lose the right to develop the acreage that is covered by an expired lease and our production would decline, which would reduce its cash flows from operations and could impair its ability to make future distribution payments on its debt. 39 Table of Contents Drilling for and producing natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Atlas Energy’s drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that it will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, its drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • adverse weather conditions; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • title problems; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • formations with abnormal pressures; • injury or loss of life; • environmental accidents such as gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment or oil leaks, including groundwater contamination; • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay Atlas Energy’s receipt of drilling and production revenues, thereby reducing its earnings, and could reduce revenues in one or more of its investment partnerships, which may make it more difficult to finance its drilling operations through sponsorship of future partnerships. In addition, any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. Although Atlas Energy maintains insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from its operations, insurance against all operational risks is not available to it. Additionally, it may elect not to obtain insurance if it believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could reduce our results of operations. Properties that Atlas Energy buys may not produce as projected and it may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. One of Atlas Energy’s growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of natural gas reserves. However, its reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well it acquires. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when it inspects a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively affect its financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Even if Atlas Energy is able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. Hedging transactions may limit Atlas Energy’s potential gains or cause it to lose money. Pricing for natural gas and oil has been volatile and unpredictable for many years. To limit exposure to changing natural gas and oil prices, Atlas Energy uses financial and physical hedges for its natural gas, and to a lesser extent, its oil production. Physical hedges are not deemed hedges for accounting purposes because they require firm delivery of natural gas and are considered normal sales of natural gas. It generally limits these arrangements to smaller quantities than those projected to be available at any delivery point. In addition, may enter into financial hedges, which may include purchases of regulated NYMEX futures and options contracts and non-regulated over-the-counter futures contracts with qualified counterparties. The futures contracts are commitments to purchase or sell natural gas at future dates and generally cover one-month periods for up to six years in the future. By removing the price volatility from a significant portion of its natural gas, and to a lesser extent, its oil production, Atlas Energy has reduced, but not eliminated, the potential effects of changing natural gas and oil prices on its cash flow from operations for those periods. Furthermore, while intended to help reduce the effects of volatile natural gas and oil prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit its potential gains if natural gas and oil prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. Under circumstances in which, among other things, production is substantially less than expected, the counterparties to its futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas prices, we may be exposed to the risk of financial loss. Atlas Energy may be exposed to financial and other liabilities as the managing general partner in investment partnerships. Atlas Energy serves as the managing general partner of 94 investment partnerships and will be the managing general partner of new investment partnerships that it sponsors. As a general partner, Atlas Energy is contingently liable for the obligations of its partnerships to the extent that partnership assets or insurance proceeds are insufficient. It has agreed to indemnify each investor partner in its investment partnerships from any liability that exceeds such partner’s share of the investment partnership’s assets. Atlas Energy is subject to comprehensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could increase the cost and alter the manner or feasibility of it doing business. Atlas Energy’s operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Under these laws and regulations, it could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which Atlas Energy operates includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, its activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect its operations and limit the quantity of natural gas it may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in its drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could inhibit its ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, reduce its profitability. Furthermore, it may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry who can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read “Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “Business—Other Regulation of the Natural Gas and Oil Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect it. Atlas Energy’s tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as Atlas Energy not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat Atlas Energy as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or Atlas Energy were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. 41 Table of Contents The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in Atlas Energy’s common units depends largely on Atlas Energy being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Atlas Energy has not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects Atlas Energy. If Atlas Energy were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to Atlas Energy unit holders would generally be taxed as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to unit holders. Because a tax may be imposed on Atlas Energy as a corporation, Atlas Energy’s cash available for distribution to its unit holders could be reduced. Therefore, Atlas Energy’s treatment as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its unit holders and therefore result in a substantial reduction in the value of Atlas Energy’s common units. Current law or Atlas Energy’s business may change so as to cause it to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject Atlas Energy to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unit holders would be reduced. Atlas Energy’s limited liability company agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects Atlas Energy to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the IQD amount and the incentive distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on Atlas Energy. ATN may issue additional units without the approval of the common unit holders, which would dilute the common unit holder’s existing ownership interests. ATN’s limited liability company agreement permits it to issue an unlimited number of units of any type, including common units, without the approval of its unit holders. The issuance of additional units or other equity securities may have the following effects: • the proportionate ownership of the existing common unit holders’ interest in it may decrease; • the amount of cash distributed on each common unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of ATN’s common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in ATN’s common units is subject to risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited liability company interests. Reduced demand for ATN’s common units resulting from investors seeking other investment opportunities may cause the trading price of its common units to decline. Unit holders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unit holders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Revised Limited Liability Company Act, ATN may not make a distribution to the common unit holders if the distribution would cause ATN’s liabilities to exceed the fair value of its assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, unit holders who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a unit holder is liable for the obligations of the transferring unit holder to make contributions to the limited liability company that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from ATN’s limited liability company agreement. 42 Table of Contents If ATN’s unit price declines, the common unit holders could lose a significant part of their investment. The market price of ATN’s common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which ATN cannot control including: • Changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of ATN’s financial performance; • The public’s reaction to ATN’s press releases, announcements and its filings with the SEC; • Fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly-traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; • Changes in market valuations of similar companies; • Departures of key personnel; • Commencement of or involvement in litigation; • Variations in ATN’s quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; • Variations in the amount of ATN’s quarterly cash distributions; • Future issuances and sales of ATN’s units; and • Changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the natural gas and oil industry. In recent years the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of ATN’s common units. If the holders of ATN’s common units vote to eliminate the special voting rights of the holders of its Class A units, the Class A units will automatically convert into common units on a one-for-one basis and we will have the option of converting the management incentive interests into common units at their fair market value, which may be dilutive to you. The holders of ATN’s Class A units have the right to vote as a separate class on extraordinary transactions submitted to a unit holder vote such as a merger or sale of all or substantially all of its assets. This right can be eliminated upon a vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of its outstanding common units. If such elimination is so approved, the Class A units will automatically convert into common units on a one-for-one basis and we will have the right to convert its management incentive interests into common units based on their then fair market value, which may be dilutive to you. ATN’s tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as its not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat ATN as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or ATN were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in ATN’s common units depends largely on its being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. ATN have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects it. If ATN were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, ATN would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to you. Because a tax may be imposed on ATN as a corporation, its cash available for distribution to its unit holders could be reduced. Therefore, ATN’s treatment as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its unit holders and therefore result in a substantial reduction in the value of ATN’s common units. Current law or its business may change so as to cause ATN to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of 43 Table of Contents widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon it as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. ATN’s limited liability company agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the cash distribution amounts and the incentive distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on it. ATN’s common unit holders may be required to pay taxes on income from it even if they do not receive any cash distributions from it. ATN’s common unit holders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of its taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from it. ATN’s common unit holders may not receive cash distributions from it equal to their share of its taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of its taxable income. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions ATN take may harm the market for its common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution. ATN have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects it. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions ATN take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions ATN take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may lower the price at which its common units trade. In addition, ATN’s costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to its unit holders and thus will be borne indirectly by its unit holders. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of ATN’s income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unit holder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of ATN’s taxable income. ATN will treat each purchaser of its common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could reduce the value of the common units. Because ATN cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, ATN will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could reduce the amount of tax benefits available to its unit holders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of ATN’s common units or result in audits of and adjustments to its unit holders’ tax returns. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of ATN’s common units could be more or less than expected because prior distributions in excess of allocations of income will decrease the tax basis in its units. If ATN’s common unit holders sell any of their common units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Prior distributions to them in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a common unit, which decreased their tax basis in that unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to them if the unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to them. In addition, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. ATN’s common unit holders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in its common units. 44 Table of Contents In addition to federal income taxes, ATN’s common unit holders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which ATN do business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. ATN’s common unit holders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, they may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each unit holder to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be require of such unit holder. ATN’s counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. ATN prorate its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of its units each month based upon the ownership of its units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among ATN’s unit holders. ATN prorate its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of its units each month based upon the ownership of its units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing IRS Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, ATN’s counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, ATN may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among its unit holders. A unit holder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unit holder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unit holder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unit holder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unit holder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of ATN’s income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unit holder and any cash distributions received by the unit holder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. ATN’s counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unit holder where common units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units; therefore, unit holders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Atlas Energy will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes due to a sale or exchange of 50% or more of its interests within a twelve-month period. Atlas Energy will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in its capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A constructive termination results in the closing of Atlas Energy’s taxable year for all unit holders and, in the case of a unit holder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, may result in more than 12 months of Atlas Energy’s taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the year of termination. A constructive termination occurring on a date other than December 31 will result in Atlas Energy filing two tax returns, and Atlas Energy unit holders receiving two Schedule K-1s, for one fiscal year and the cost of the preparation of these returns will be borne by all Atlas Energy unit holders. Risks Related to Atlas Pipeline Holdings AHD’s only cash generating assets are its interests in APL, and its cash flow therefore completely depends upon the ability of APL to make distributions to its partners. AHD depends upon cash distributions from APL to fund its operations, pay its debt service on its credit facilities and make distributions to its unitholders. The amounts of cash that APL generates may not be sufficient for it to pay distributions to AHD at the current or any other level of distribution. APL’s ability to make cash distributions depends primarily on its cash flow. Cash distributions do not depend directly on APL’s profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, cash distributions may be made during periods when APL records losses and may not be made during periods when APL records profits. The actual amounts of cash APL generates will depend upon numerous factors relating to its business which we discuss in “Risks relating to APL’s Business,” many of which may be beyond its control, including: • the demand for and price of its natural gas and NGLs; 45 Table of Contents • expiration of significant contracts; • the volume of natural gas APL transports; • continued development of wells for connection to APL’s gathering systems; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the expenses APL incurs in providing its gathering services; • the cost of acquisitions and capital improvements; • APL’s issuance of equity securities; • required principal and interest payments on APL’s debt; • fluctuations in working capital; • prevailing economic conditions; • fuel conservation measures; • alternate fuel requirements; • government regulation and taxation; and • technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash that APL will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures it makes; • the sources of cash used to fund its acquisitions; • its debt service requirements and requirements to pay dividends on its outstanding preferred units, and restrictions on distributions contained in its current or future debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by us, as APL’s general partner, for the conduct of APL’s business. APL is unable to borrow under its credit facility to pay distributions of available cash to unit holders because such borrowings would not constitute “working capital borrowings” under its partnership agreement. Because APL will be unable to borrow money to pay distributions unless it establishes a facility that meets the definition contained in its partnership agreement, APL’s ability to pay a distribution in any quarter is solely dependent on its ability to generate sufficient operating surplus with respect to that quarter. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact APL’s business which could impact the cash AHD has to make distributions to its unitholders. APL’s operations are affected by the continued financial crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the current credit crisis include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. This has resulted in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas, and may result in a reduction in drilling activity in APL’s service area or in wells currently connected to APL’s pipeline system being shut in by their operators until prices improve. Any of these events may adversely affect APL’s revenues and its ability to fund capital expenditures and, in turn, may impact the cash that AHD has available to fund its operations, pay debt service on its credit facility and make distributions to its unitholders. 46 Table of Contents Recent instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, has increased the cost of capital while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. This may affect APL’s ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund its operations. APL relies on its cash flow from operations and its credit facility to execute its growth strategy and to meet its financial commitments and other short-term liquidity needs. AHD cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to APL to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact its access to liquidity needed for its business and impact its flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any disruption could require APL to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until it can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs. Such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing its operations to lower expenses, reducing other discretionary uses of cash, and reducing or eliminating future distributions to its unitholders. The source of AHD’s earnings and cash flow currently consists exclusively of cash distributions from APL. If APL reduces or eliminates its distributions, AHD would be forced to reduce or eliminate distributions to its unitholders and may be unable to make required debt service payments under its credit facility which would result in lenders foreclosing on some portion, or all, of AHD’s interest in APL. Moreover, APL may be unable to execute its growth strategy, take advantage of business opportunities or to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively impact its and AHD’s business as it depends on APL for its growth as we describe in “AHD depends on APL for its growth. As a result of the fiduciary obligations of APL’s general partner, which is AHD’s wholly-owned subsidiary, to the common unit holders of APL, AHD’s ability to pursue business opportunities independently is limited,” under “Risks Relating to AHD’s Business”. The current economic situation could have an adverse impact on APL’s producers, key suppliers or other customers, or on AHD’s or APL’s lenders, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to AHD or APL. Market conditions could also impact APL’s derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, APL’s cash flow and ability to pay distributions could be impacted which in turn affects AHD’s ability to make required debt service payments on its credit facility and the amount of distributions that AHD is able to make to its unitholders. The uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have further impacts on APL’s, and consequently AHD’s, business and financial condition that AHD and APL currently cannot predict or anticipate. AHD’s and APL’s debt levels and restrictions in AHD’s and APL’s credit facilities could limit their ability to fund operations, pay required debt service on their credit facilities and make distributions to its unit holders. APL has a significant amount of debt. APL will need a substantial portion of its cash flow to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to its unit holders. If APL’s operating results are not sufficient to service its current or future indebtedness, it will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. APL may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. If it cannot, its ability to make distributions to AHD and consequently, AHD’s ability to fund its operations, pay required debt service and make distributions to its unitholders could be reduced or eliminated. AHD’s and APL’s credit facilities contain covenants limiting the ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, engage in transactions with affiliates and make distributions to unit holders. AHD’s and APL’s credit facilities also contain covenants requiring APL and AHD to maintain certain financial ratios. In addition, AHD and APL are prohibited from making any distribution to its respective unit holders if such distribution would cause an event of default or otherwise violate a covenant under their respective credit facilities. If AHD does not pay distributions on its common units with respect to any fiscal quarter, AHD’s unit holders are not entitled to receive such payments in the future. AHD’s distributions to its unit holders are not cumulative. Consequently, if AHD does not pay distributions on its common units with respect to any fiscal quarter, AHD’s unit holders are not entitled to receive such payments in the future. In the future, AHD may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions at its current quarterly distribution level or to increase distributions. The source of AHD’s earnings and cash flow currently consists exclusively of cash distributions from APL. Therefore, AHD’s ability to fund its operations, pay required debt service on its credit facility and, thereafter, to make distributions to its 47 Table of Contents unit holders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions APL makes to its partners. AHD cannot assure unit holders that APL will continue to make quarterly distributions at its current level or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while AHD would expect to increase or decrease distributions to its unit holders if APL increases or decreases distributions to AHD, the timing and amount of such increased or decreased distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by APL to AHD. AHD’s ability to distribute cash received from APL to its unit holders is limited by a number of factors, including: • interest expense and principal payments on any current or future indebtedness; • restrictions on distributions contained in any current or future debt agreements; • AHD’s general and administrative expenses, including expenses it incurs as a result of being a public company; • expenses of AHD’s subsidiaries other than APL, including tax liabilities of AHD’s corporate subsidiaries, if any; • reserves necessary for AHD to make the necessary capital contributions to maintain its 2.0% general partner interest in APL as required by its partnership agreement upon the issuance of additional partnership securities by APL; and • reserves AHD’s general partner believes prudent for it to maintain for the proper conduct of its business or to provide for future distributions. AHD cannot guarantee that in the future it will be able to pay distributions or that any distributions it does make will be at or above its current quarterly distribution level. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to AHD’s unit holders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond AHD’s control or the control of its general partner. AHD, as the parent of APL’s general partner, may limit or modify the incentive distributions it is entitled to receive from APL in order to facilitate the growth strategy of APL. The board of directors of AHD’s general partner, our subsidiary, can give this consent without a vote of our or AHD’s unit holders. AHD owns APL’s general partner, which owns the incentive distribution rights in APL that entitles AHD to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48.0%, of any cash distributed by APL as it reaches certain target distribution levels in excess of $0.42 per common unit in any quarter. A substantial portion of the cash flows AHD receives from APL is provided by these incentive distributions. APL’s board of directors may reduce the incentive distribution rights payable to AHD with its consent, which AHD may provide without the approval of its unit holders or us. In July 2007, in connection with APL’s acquisition of the Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems, AHD agreed to allocate up to $5.0 million of incentive distribution rights per quarter back to APL through the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and up to $3.75 million per quarter thereafter. AHD also agreed that the resulting allocation of incentive distribution rights back to APL would be after AHD receives the initial $3.7 million per quarter of incentive distribution rights through the quarter ended December 31, 2007, and $7.0 million per quarter thereafter. In order to facilitate acquisitions by APL, the general partner of APL may elect to limit the incentive distributions AHD is entitled to receive with respect to a particular acquisition or unit issuance contemplated by APL. This is because a potential acquisition might not be accretive to APL’s common unit holders as a result of the significant portion of that acquisition’s cash flows which would be paid as incentive distributions to AHD. By limiting the level of incentive distributions in connection with a particular acquisition or issuance of units of APL, the cash flows associated with that acquisition could be accretive to APL’s common unit holders as well as substantially beneficial to AHD. In doing so, the managing board of APL’s general partner would be required to consider both its fiduciary obligations to investors in APL as well as to AHD. AHD’s partnership agreement specifically permits its general partner to authorize the general partner of APL to limit or modify the incentive distribution rights held by AHD if its general partner determines that such limitation or modification does not adversely affect AHD’s limited partners in any material respect. A reduction in APL’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which AHD is currently entitled. AHD is entitled to receive incentive distributions from APL with respect to any particular quarter only if APL distributes more than $0.42 per common unit for such quarter. Furthermore, as described in the immediately preceding risk factor, AHD agreed to allocate up to $5.0 million of incentive distributions per quarter back to APL through the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and up to $3.75 million per quarter thereafter. AHD also agreed that the resulting allocation of incentive distribution rights back to APL would be after AHD receives the initial $3.7 million per quarter of incentive distribution rights through the quarter ended December 31, 2007, and $7.0 million per quarter thereafter. 48 Table of Contents Because the incentive distribution rights currently participate at the maximum target cash distribution level, future growth in distributions AHD receives from APL will not result from an increase in the target cash distribution level associated with the incentive distribution rights. Furthermore, a decrease in the amount of distributions by APL to less than $0.60 per common unit per quarter would reduce AHD’s percentage of the incremental cash distributions from 48% to 23%, if APL’s distribution is between $0.52 and $0.59, and to 13%, if APL’s distribution is between $0.43 and $0.51, subject in both cases to the effect of the incentive distribution adjustment agreement. As a result, any such reduction in quarterly cash distributions from APL would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of all incentive distributions that AHD receives as compared to cash distributions AHD receives on its 2.0% general partner interest in APL and the APL common units AHD owns. AHD’s ability to meet its financial needs may be adversely affected by its cash distribution policy and AHD’s lack of operational assets. AHD’s cash distribution policy, which is consistent with AHD’s partnership agreement, requires it to distribute all of its available cash quarterly. AHD’s only cash generating assets are partnership interests, including incentive distribution rights, in APL, and AHD currently has no independent operations separate from those of APL. Moreover, a reduction in APL’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions AHD receives. Given that AHD’s cash distribution policy is to distribute available cash and not retain it and that AHD’s only cash generating assets are partnership interests in APL, AHD may not have enough cash to meet its needs if any of the following events occur: • an increase in AHD’s operating expenses; • an increase in general and administrative expenses; • an increase in principal and interest payments on AHD’s outstanding debt; • an increase in working capital requirements; or • an increase in cash needs of APL or its subsidiaries that reduces APL’s distributions. There is no guarantee that AHD’s unit holders will receive quarterly distributions from AHD. While AHD’s cash distribution policy, which is consistent with the terms of its partnership agreement, requires that AHD distribute all of its available cash quarterly, AHD’s cash distribution policy is subject to the following restrictions and limitations and may be changed at any time, including in the following ways: • AHD may lack sufficient cash to pay distributions to its unit holders due to a number of factors, including increases in its general and administrative expenses, increases in principal or interest payments on its outstanding debt, reductions in distributions from APL, the effect of the IDR Adjustment Agreement, principal and interest payments on debt AHD may incur, tax expenses, working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs of AHD or APL and their subsidiaries; • AHD’s cash distribution policy is, and APL’s cash distribution policy is, subject to restrictions on distributions under AHD’s and APL’s credit facilities, such as material financial tests and covenants and limitations on paying distributions during an event of default; • The AHD general partner’s board of directors will have the authority under AHD’s partnership agreement to establish reserves for the prudent conduct of its business and for future cash distributions to its unit holders, and the managing board of APL’s general partner has the authority under APL’s partnership agreement to establish reserves for the prudent conduct of APL’s business and for future cash distributions to APL’s common unit holders. The establishment of those reserves could result in a reduction in cash distributions to AHD’s unit holders from current levels pursuant to AHD’s stated cash distribution policy; • AHD’s partnership agreement, including the cash distribution policy contained therein, may be amended by a vote of the holders of a majority of AHD’s common units; 49 Table of Contents • Even if AHD’s cash distribution policy is not amended, modified or revoked, the amount of distributions AHD pays under its cash distribution policy and the decision to make any distribution is determined by its general partner, taking into consideration the terms of AHD’s partnership agreement and the amount of distributions paid under APL’s cash distribution policy. The decision by APL to make any distribution to its unit holders is at the discretion of APL’s general partner, taking into consideration the terms of its partnership agreement; and • Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, APL may not make a distribution to its partners if the distribution would cause its liabilities to exceed the fair value of its assets, and AHD may not make a distribution to its unit holders if the distribution would cause its liabilities to exceed the fair value of its assets. Because of these restrictions and limitations on AHD’s cash distribution policy and its ability to change its cash distribution policy, AHD may not have available cash to distribute to its unit holders, and there is no guarantee that its unit holders will receive quarterly distributions from AHD. AHD’s cash distribution policy limits its ability to grow. Because AHD distributes all of its available cash, its growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. In fact, AHD’s growth completely depends upon APL’s ability to increase its quarterly distribution per unit because currently its only cash-generating assets are partnership interests in APL, including incentive distribution rights. If AHD issues additional units or incurs additional debt to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units or interest on that debt could increase the risk that AHD will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. Consistent with the terms of its partnership agreement, APL distributes to its partners its available cash each quarter. In determining the amount of cash available for distribution, APL sets aside cash reserves, including reserves it believes prudent to maintain for the proper conduct of its business or to provide for future distributions. Additionally, it has relied upon external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and other debt and equity issuances, to fund its acquisition capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent APL does not have sufficient cash reserves or is unable to finance growth externally, its cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. In addition, to the extent APL issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional common units may increase the risk that APL will be unable to maintain or increase its per common unit distribution level. The occurrence of any of these events may impact the cash that AHD has available to fund its operations, pay required debt service on its credit facility and make distributions to its unit holders. Moreover, the incurrence of additional debt to finance its growth strategy would result in increased interest expense to APL, which in turn may impact the cash it has available to distribute to its unit holders. AHD depends on APL for its growth. As a result of the fiduciary obligations of APL’s general partner, which is AHD’s wholly-owned subsidiary, to the common unit holders of APL, AHD’s ability to pursue business opportunities independently is limited. AHD currently intends to grow primarily through the growth of APL. While AHD is not precluded from pursuing business opportunities independently of APL, AHD’s subsidiary, as the general partner of APL, has fiduciary duties to APL unit holders which would make it difficult for AHD to engage in any business activity that is competitive with APL. Those fiduciary duties apply to AHD because it controls the general partner through its ability to elect all of its directors. While there may be circumstances in which AHD may satisfy these fiduciary duties and still pursue business opportunities independent of APL, AHD expects such opportunities to be limited. Accordingly, AHD may be unable to diversify its sources of revenue in order to increase cash distributions. AHD’s ability to sell its general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in APL is limited. AHD faces contractual limitations on its ability to sell its general partner interest and incentive distribution rights and the market for such interests is illiquid. APL’s common unit holders have the right to remove APL’s general partner with the approval of the holders of 66 2/3% of all units, which would cause AHD to lose its general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in APL and the ability to manage APL. 50 Table of Contents AHD currently manages APL through Atlas Pipeline GP, APL’s general partner and AHD’s wholly-owned subsidiary. APL’s partnership agreement, however, gives common unit holders of APL the right to remove the general partner of APL upon the affirmative vote of holders of 66 2/3% of APL’s outstanding common units. If Atlas Pipeline GP were removed as general partner of APL, it would receive cash or common units in exchange for its 2.0% general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights and would lose its ability to manage APL. While the common units or cash AHD would receive are intended under the terms of APL’s partnership agreement to fully compensate AHD in the event such an exchange is required, the value of these common units or investments AHD makes with the cash over time may not be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights had AHD retained them. APL may issue additional limited partner units, which may increase the risk of it not having sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per common unit distribution level. APL has wide discretion to issue additional limited partner units, including units that rank senior to its common units and the incentive distribution rights as to quarterly cash distributions, on the terms and conditions established by its general partner. The payment of distributions on additional APL common units may increase the risk of APL being unable to maintain or increase its per common unit distribution level. To the extent new APL limited partner units are senior to the APL common units and the incentive distribution rights, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on the common units and the incentive distribution rights. Neither the common units nor the incentive distribution rights are entitled to any arrearages from prior quarters. AHD may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests without the consent of its unit holders, which will dilute existing limited partners’ ownership interest in AHD and may increase the risk that AHD will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. AHD may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of its unit holders on terms and conditions established by AHD’s general partner at any time. The issuance by AHD of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • AHD unit holders’ proportionate ownership interest in it will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; and • the market price of the common units may decline. If in the future AHD ceases to manage and control APL through AHD’s ownership of APL’s general partner interests, AHD may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If AHD ceases to manage and control APL and is deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, AHD would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify AHD’s organizational structure or its contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit AHD’s ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from AHD’s affiliates, restrict AHD’s ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require AHD to add additional directors who are independent of AHD or its affiliates. The value of AHD’s investment in APL depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of APL’s gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. APL may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, APL to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to federal income tax. Moreover, the anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in AHD’s common units depends largely on AHD being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. AHD has not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting AHD. If APL were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to AHD would generally be taxed 51 Table of Contents again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to AHD. As a result, there would be a material reduction in AHD’s anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of AHD’s units. If AHD were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, AHD would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to AHD’s unit holders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to AHD’s unit holders. Because a tax would be imposed upon AHD as a corporation, AHD’s cash available for distribution to its unit holders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of AHD as a corporation would result in a material reduction in AHD’s anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of AHD’s units. Current law may change, causing AHD or APL to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting AHD or APL to entity level taxation. For example, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon AHD or APL as an entity, the cash available for distribution to AHD’s unit holders would be reduced. Risks Relating to APL’s Business Because AHD’s cash flow currently consists exclusively of distributions from APL, risks to APL’s business are also risks to AHD. Set forth below are the material risks to APL’s business or results of operations, the occurrence of which could negatively impact APL’s financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distribute to AHD, thereby decreasing the amount of cash AHD has available for funding its operations, paying required debt service on its credit facility or making distributions to its unit holders. APL is affected by the volatility of prices for natural gas and NGL products. APL derives a majority of its revenues from POP and keep-whole contracts. As a result, APL’s income depends to a significant extent upon the prices at which the natural gas it transports, treats or processes and the NGLs it produces are sold. A 10% change in the average price of NGLs, natural gas and condensate APL processes and sells, based upon estimated unhedged market prices of $0.76 per gallon, $6.50 per mmbtu and $55.00 per barrel for NGLs, natural gas and condensate, respectively, would change its gross margin for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2009, excluding the effect of minority interests in APL’s net income, by approximately $25.3 million. Additionally, changes in natural gas prices may indirectly impact APL’s profitability since prices can influence drilling activity and well operations, and could cause operators of wells currently connected to APL’s pipeline system or that APL expects will be connected to its system to shut them in until prices improve, thereby affecting the volume of gas APL gathers and processes. Historically, the price of both natural gas and NGLs has been subject to significant volatility in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for natural gas and NGL products, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond APL’s control, including those AHD describes in “—AHD’s only cash generating assets are its partnership interests in APL, and its cash flow therefore completely depends upon the ability of APL to make distributions to its partners,” under “Risks Relating to Atlas Pipeline Holdings”. Oil and natural gas prices have been extremely volatile recently and have declined substantially. On December 19, 2008, the price of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell to $33.87 per barrel for January 2009 delivery, declining to an approximate 5-year low and from a high of $147.27 per barrel in July 2008. APL expects this volatility to continue. This volatility may cause APL’s gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. APL’s risk management strategies may not be sufficient to offset price volatility risk and, in any event, do not cover all of the throughput volumes subject to percentage-of-proceeds contracts. Moreover, derivative instruments are subject to inherent risks, which are described in “— APL’s price risk management strategies may fail to protect it and could reduce its gross margin and cash flow.” The amount of natural gas APL transports will decline over time unless it is able to attract new wells to connect to its gathering systems. Production of natural gas from a well generally declines over time until the well can no longer economically produce natural gas and is plugged and abandoned. Failure to connect new wells to APL’s gathering systems could, therefore, result in the amount of natural gas APL transports declining substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause it to abandon one or more of its gathering systems and, possibly, cease operations. The primary factors affecting APL’s ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to its gathering systems include APL’s success in contracting for existing wells that are not committed to other systems, the level of drilling activity near its gathering systems and, in the Mid-Continent region, APL’s ability to attract natural gas producers away from its competitors’ gathering systems. Fluctuations in energy 52 Table of Contents prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. A decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by APL’s gathering and processing facilities and pipeline transportation systems could result if there is a sustained decline in natural gas prices, which in turn, would lead to a reduced utilization of those assets. The decline in the credit markets, the lack of availability of credit, debt or equity financing and the decline in natural gas prices may result in a reduction of producers’ exploratory drilling. APL has no control over the level of drilling activity in its service areas, the amount of reserves underlying wells that connect to its systems and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, APL has no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, drilling costs, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. In a low price environment, such as currently exists, producers may determine to shut in wells already connected to APL’s systems until prices improve. Because APL’s operating costs are fixed to a significant degree, a reduction in the natural gas volumes it transports or processes would result in a reduction in its gross margin and cash flows. The amount of natural gas APL transports, treats or processes may be reduced if the natural gas liquids pipelines to which it delivers NGLs cannot or will not accept the NGLs. If one or more of the pipelines to which APL delivers NGLs has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise does not accept the NGLs APL sells to or transports on, and APL cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines, the amount of NGLs APL sells or transport may be reduced. Since APL’s revenues depend upon the volumes of NGLs it sells or transports, this could result in a material reduction in its gross margin and cash flows. The success of APL’s Appalachian operations depends upon Atlas Energy’s ability to drill and complete commercial producing wells. Substantially all of the wells APL connects to its gathering systems in its Appalachian service area are drilled and operated by Atlas Energy for drilling investment partnerships sponsored by Atlas Energy. As a result, APL’s Appalachian operations depend principally upon the success of Atlas Energy in sponsoring drilling investment partnerships and completing wells for these partnerships. Atlas Energy operates in a highly competitive environment for acquiring undeveloped leasehold acreage and attracting capital. Atlas Energy may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring undeveloped leasehold acreage or in raising additional capital through its drilling investment partnerships. Furthermore, Atlas Energy is not required to connect wells for which it is not the operator to APL’s gathering systems. If Atlas Energy cannot or does not continue to sponsor drilling investment partnerships, if the amount of money raised by those partnerships decreases, or if the number of wells actually drilled and completed as commercially producing wells decreases, the amount of natural gas transported by APL’s Appalachian gathering systems would substantially decrease and could, upon exhaustion of the wells currently connected to APL’s gathering systems, cause APL to abandon one or more of its Appalachian gathering systems, thereby materially reducing APL’s gross margin and cash flows. The success of APL’s Mid-Continent operations depends upon its ability to continually find and contract for new sources of natural gas supply from unrelated third parties. Unlike APL’s Appalachian operations, none of the drillers or operators in its Mid-Continent service area is an affiliate of ATLS. Moreover, APL’s agreements with most of the producers with which its Mid-Continent operations do business generally do not require them to dedicate significant amounts of undeveloped acreage to APL’s systems. While APL does have some undeveloped acreage dedicated on its systems, most notably with its partner Pioneer on our Midkiff/Benedum system, APL does not have assured sources to provide it with new wells to connect to its Mid-Continent gathering systems. Failure to connect new wells to APL’s Mid-Continent operations will, as described in “— The amount of natural gas APL transports will decline over time unless it is able to attract new wells to connect to its gathering systems,” above, will reduce APL’s gross margin and cash flows. APL’s Mid-Continent operations currently depend on certain key producers for their supply of natural gas; the loss of any of these key producers could reduce its revenues. During 2008, Chesapeake Energy Corporation, Pioneer, Sandridge Energy, Inc., Conoco Phillips, XTO Energy Inc., Henry Petroleum, L.P., Linn Energy, LLC and Apache Corporation supplied APL’s Mid-Continent systems with a majority of their natural gas supply. If these producers reduce the volumes of natural gas that they supply to APL, APL’s gross margin and cash flows would be reduced unless it obtains comparable supplies of natural gas from other producers. 53 Table of Contents The curtailment of operations at, or closure of, any of APL’s processing plants could harm its business. If operations at any of APL’s processing plants were to be curtailed, or closed, whether due to accident, natural catastrophe, environmental regulation or for any other reason, APL’s ability to process natural gas from the relevant gathering system and, as a result, its ability to extract and sell NGLs, would be harmed. If this curtailment or stoppage were to extend for more than a short period, APL’s gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. APL may face increased competition in the future in its Mid-Continent service areas. APL’s Mid-Continent operations may face competition for well connections. DCP Midstream, LLC, ONEOK, Inc., Carrera Gas Company, Copano Energy, LLC and Enogex, LLC. operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in APL’s Velma service area. In APL’s Elk City and Sweetwater service area, ONEOK Field Services, Eagle Rock Midstream Resources, L.P., Enbridge Energy Partners, L.P., CenterPoint Energy, Inc., Markwest Energy Partners, L.P. and Enogex LLC. operate competing gathering systems and processing plants. CenterPoint Energy, Inc.’s and Texas Gas Transmission’s interstate systems are the nearest direct competitors to APL’s Ozark Gas Transmission system. CenterPoint and Hiland Partners operate competing gathering systems in Ozark Gas Gathering’s service area. Hiland Partners, DCP Midstream, Mustang Fuel Corporation and ONEOK Partners operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in APL’s Chaney Dell service area. DCP Midstream, J.L. Davis and Targa Resources operate competing gathering systems and processing plants in APL’s Midkiff/Benedum service area. Some of APL’s competitors have greater financial and other resources than APL does. If these companies become more active in APL’s Mid-Continent service areas, it may not be able to compete successfully with them in securing new well connections or retaining current well connections. If APL does not compete successfully, the amount of natural gas APL transports, processes and treats will decrease, reducing its gross margin and cash flows. The amount of natural gas APL transports, treats or processes may be reduced if the public utility and interstate pipelines to which APL delivers gas cannot or will not accept the gas. APL’s gathering systems principally serve as intermediate transportation facilities between sales lines from wells connected to APL’s systems and the public utility or interstate pipelines to which APL delivers natural gas. If one or more of these pipelines has service interruptions, capacity limitations or otherwise does not accept the natural gas APL transports, and APL cannot arrange for delivery to other pipelines, local distribution companies or end users, the amount of natural gas APL transports may be reduced. Since APL’s revenues depend upon the volumes of natural gas it transports, this could result in a material reduction in APL’s gross margin and cash flows. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the risk that reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • significant increases in APL’s indebtedness and working capital requirements; • delays in obtaining any required regulatory approvals of third party consents; • the imposition of conditions on any acquisition by a regulatory authority; • an inability to integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 54 Table of Contents • increased demands on existing personnel; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, APL’s future acquisition costs may be higher than those it has achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely impact APL’s future growth and its ability to make or increase distributions. APL may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from its recent acquisitions or any future acquisitions with its operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. APL has an active, on-going program to identify potential acquisitions. APL’s integration of previously independent operations with its own can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems with its existing systems include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating operational and administrative functions; • integrating pipeline safety-related records and procedures; • integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; • a significant increase in APL’s indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. APL’s investment in the interconnection of its Elk City/Sweetwater and Chaney Dell systems and the additional overhead costs it incurs to grow its NGL business may not deliver the expected incremental volume or cash flow. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand its operations could harm its business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in its gross margin and cash flows. The acquisitions of APL’s Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems have substantially changed APL’s business, making it difficult to evaluate its business based upon its historical financial information. The acquisitions of APL’s Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems have significantly increased its size and substantially redefined APL’s business plan, expanded its geographic market and resulted in large changes to its revenues and expenses. As a result of these acquisitions, and APL’s continued plan to acquire and integrate additional companies that it believes presents attractive opportunities, APL’s financial results for any period or changes in its results across periods may continue to dramatically change. APL’s historical financial results, therefore, should not be relied upon to accurately predict its future operating results, thereby making the evaluation of its business more difficult. Due to APL’s lack of asset diversification, negative developments in its operations would reduce its ability to fund its operations, pay required debt service on its credit facilities and make distributions to its common unit holders. APL relies exclusively on the revenues generated from its transportation, gathering and processing operations, and as a result, its financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to APL’s lack of asset-type diversification, a negative development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if APL maintained more diverse assets. 55 Table of Contents APL’s construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could impair its results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways APL may grow its business is through the construction of new assets, such as the Sweetwater plant. The construction of additions or modifications to its existing systems and facilities, and the construction of new assets, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond APL’s control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. Any projects APL undertakes may not be completed on schedule at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, APL’s revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if APL expands a gathering system, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, APL may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which growth does not materialize. Since APL is not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas reserves, it often does not have access to estimates of potential reserves in an area before constructing facilities in the area. To the extent APL relies on estimates of future production in its decision to construct additions to its systems, the estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve APL’s expected investment return, which could impair its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, APL’s actual revenues from a project could materially differ from expectations as a result of the price of natural gas, the NGL content of the natural gas processed and other economic factors described in this section. APL recently completed construction of an expansion to its Sweetwater natural gas processing plant, from which it expects to generate additional incremental cash flow. APL also continues to expand the natural gas gathering system surrounding Sweetwater in order to maximize its plant throughput. In addition to the risks discussed above, expected incremental revenue from the Sweetwater natural gas processing plant could be reduced or delayed due to the following reasons: • difficulties in obtaining equity or debt financing for additional construction and operating costs; • difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory or third-party consents; • additional construction and operating costs exceeding budget estimates; • revenue being less than expected due to lower commodity prices or lower demand; • difficulties in obtaining consistent supplies of natural gas; and • terms in operating agreements that are not favorable to APL. If APL is unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then its cash flows could be reduced. The construction of additions to APL’s existing gathering assets may require it to obtain new rights-of-way before constructing new pipelines. APL may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to its existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for APL to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then its cash flows could be reduced. Regulation of APL’s gathering operations could increase its operating costs, decrease its revenues, or both. Currently APL’s gathering of natural gas from wells is exempt from regulation under the Natural Gas Act. However, the implementation of new laws or policies, or changed interpretations of existing laws, could subject APL’s gathering and processing operations to regulation by FERC under the Natural Gas Act. APL expects that any such regulation would increase its costs, decrease its gross margin and cash flows, or both. Even if APL’s gathering and processing operations are not generally subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act, FERC regulation will still affect APL’s business and the market for its products. FERC’s policies and practices affect a range 56 Table of Contents of APL’s natural gas pipeline activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate natural gas pipeline open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion, which indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, APL cannot ensure that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. Since federal law generally leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, state and local regulations may also affect APL’s business. Matters subject to regulation include access, rates, terms of service and safety. For example, APL’s gathering lines are subject to ratable take, common purchaser and similar statutes in one or more jurisdictions in which APL operates. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer, while ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Texas and Oklahoma have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities, which allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and discrimination with respect to rates or terms of service. Should a complaint be filed or regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission or Oklahoma Corporation Commission become more active, APL’s revenues could decrease. Collectively, all of these statutes restrict APL’s right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom it contracts to purchase or transports natural gas. Increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of the Ozark Transmission pipeline will require it to spend additional money to comply with these requirements. In particular, Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. Federal legislation signed into law in December 2002 includes guidelines for the U.S. Department of Transportation and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. Compliance with existing and recently enacted regulations requires significant expenditures. Additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future, such as U.S. Department of Transportation implementation of additional hydrostatic testing requirements, could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to FERC rate-making policies that could have an adverse impact on APL’s ability to establish rates that would allow it to recover the full cost of operating the pipeline. FERC’s rate-making policies could affect Ozark Gas Transmission’s ability to establish rates, or to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that have been determined not to be just and reasonable by FERC. The rates, terms and conditions of service provided by natural gas companies are required to be on file with FERC in FERC-approved tariffs. Pursuant to FERC’s jurisdiction over rates, existing rates may be challenged by complaint and proposed rate increases may be challenged by protest. APL cannot ensure that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas capacity and transportation facilities. Any successful complaint or protest against Ozark Gas Transmission’s rates could reduce APL’s revenues associated with providing transmission services. APL cannot ensure you that it will be able to recover all of Ozark Gas Transmission’s costs through existing or future rates. Ozark Gas Transmission is subject to regulation by FERC in addition to FERC rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services. FERC’s regulatory authority also extends to: • operating terms and conditions of service; • the types of services Ozark Gas Transmission’s may offer to its customers; • transactions involving the assignment of interstate pipeline capacity; • construction of new facilities; • acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; • accounts and records, as well as periodic reporting requirements; and 57 Table of Contents • relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. FERC action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations could impair Ozark Gas Transmission’s ability to compete for business, increase the costs it incurs in its operations, limit the construction of new facilities or its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipeline. For example, the development of uniform interstate gas quality standards by FERC could create two distinct markets for natural gas—an interstate market subject to uniform minimum quality standards and an intrastate market with no uniform minimum quality standards. Such a bifurcation of markets could make it difficult for APL’s pipelines to compete in both markets or to attract certain gas supplies away from the intrastate market. The time FERC takes to approve the construction of new facilities could raise the costs of APL’s projects to the point where they are no longer economic. FERC has authority to review pipeline contracts. If FERC determines that a term of any such contract deviates in a material manner from a pipeline’s tariff, FERC typically will order the pipeline to remove the term from the contract and execute and refile a new contract with FERC or, alternatively, to amend its tariff to include the deviating term, thereby offering it to all shippers. If FERC audits a pipeline’s contracts and finds deviations that appear to be unduly discriminatory, FERC could conduct a formal enforcement investigation, resulting in serious penalties and/or onerous ongoing compliance obligations. Should Ozark Gas Transmission fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, it could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. Finally, APL cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which APL will operate Ozark Gas Transmission or the effect such regulation could have on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the DOT and state agencies could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. DOT and state agency regulations require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventative and mitigating actions. APL does not believe that the cost of implementing integrity management program testing along certain segments of APL’s pipeline will have a material effect on its results of operations. This does not include the costs, if any, of any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which costs could be substantial. APL’s midstream natural gas operations may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or a release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of APL’s gathering systems, plant and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact APL’s business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which it disposes of substances, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. 58 Table of Contents There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in APL’s business due to its handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to APL’s operations, historical industry operations including releases of substances into the environment, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of APL’s pipelines or processing facilities could subject it to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase APL’s compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. APL may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. APL may not be able to execute its growth strategy successfully. APL’s strategy contemplates substantial growth through both the acquisition of other gathering systems and processing assets and the expansion of its existing gathering systems and processing assets. APL’s growth strategy involves numerous risks, including: • APL may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates; • APL may not be able to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms for various reasons, including limitations on access to capital and increased competition for a limited pool of suitable assets; • APL’s costs in seeking to make acquisitions may be material, even if it cannot complete any acquisition it has pursued; • irrespective of estimates at the time it makes an acquisition, the acquisition may prove to be dilutive to earnings and operating surplus; • APL may encounter delays in receiving regulatory approvals or may receive approvals that are subject to material conditions; • APL may encounter difficulties in integrating operations and systems; and • any additional debt APL incurs to finance an acquisition may impair its ability to service its existing debt. Limitations on APL’s access to capital or the market for its common units will impair APL’s ability to execute its growth strategy. APL’s ability to raise capital for acquisitions and other capital expenditures depends upon ready access to the capital markets. Historically, APL has financed its acquisitions, and to a much lesser extent, expansions of its gathering systems by bank credit facilities and the proceeds of public and private debt and equity offerings of its common units and preferred units of its operating partnership. If APL is unable to access the capital markets, it may be unable to execute its strategy of growth through acquisitions. APL may issue additional units, which may increase the risk of not having sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. APL has wide discretion to issue additional units, including units that rank senior to its common units as to quarterly cash distributions, on the terms and conditions established by its general partner. The payment of distributions on these additional units may increase the risk that APL will not be able to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. To the extent new units are senior to its common units, their issuance will increase the uncertainty of the payment of distributions on the common units. APL’s price risk management strategies may fail to protect it and could reduce its gross margin and cash flow. 59 Table of Contents APL pursues various hedging strategies to seek to reduce its exposure to losses from adverse changes in the prices for natural gas and NGLs. APL’s price risk management activities will vary in scope based upon the level and volatility of natural gas and NGL prices and other changing market conditions. APL’s price risk management activity may fail to protect or could harm it because, among other things: • entering into derivative instruments can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices; • available derivative instruments may not correspond directly with the risks against which APL seeks protection; • the duration of the derivative instrument may not match the duration of the risk against which APL seeks protection; and • the party owing money in the derivative transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Due to the accounting of APL’s derivative contracts, increases in prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs could result in non-cash balance sheet reductions. With the objective of enhancing the predictability of future revenues, from time to time APL enters into natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil derivative contracts. APL accounts for these derivative contracts by applying the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Due to the mark-to-market accounting treatment for these derivative contracts, APL could recognize incremental derivative liabilities between reporting periods resulting from increases or decreases in reference prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, which could result in APL recognizing a non-cash loss in our consolidated statements of operations or through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a consequent non-cash decrease in our stockholders’ equity between reporting periods. Any such decrease could be substantial. In addition, APL may be required to make a cash payment upon the termination of any of these derivative contracts. APL’s hedging activities do not eliminate its exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and may reduce its cash flow and subject our earnings to increased volatility. APL’s operations expose it to fluctuations in commodity prices. APL utilizes derivative contracts related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs with the intent of reducing the volatility of its cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. APL also has exposure to interest rate fluctuations as a result of variable rate debt under its term loan and revolving credit facility. APL has entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of this variable rate debt to a fixed rate obligation, thereby reducing its exposure to market rate fluctuations. APL has entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of its crude oil, natural gas and NGL volume and its variable rate debt. As a result, it will continue to have direct commodity price risk and interest rate risk with respect to the unhedged portion of these items. To the extent APL hedges its commodity price and interest rate risk using certain derivative contracts, APL will forego the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in its favor. Even though APL’s hedging activities are monitored by management, these activities could reduce its cash flow in some circumstances, including if the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, if there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices received or, with regard to commodity derivatives, if production is less than expected. With respect to commodity derivative contracts, if the actual amount of production is lower than the amount that is subject to its derivative instruments, APL might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from its sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of its cash flow. In addition, APL has entered into proxy hedges with respect to its NGLs, typically using crude oil derivative contracts, based upon the historical price correlation between crude oil and NGLs. Certain of these proxy hedges could become less effective as a result of significant increases in the price of crude oil and less significant increases in the price of ethane and propane. If these proxy hedges remain less effective, its settlement of the contracts could result in significant costs to APL. The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are complex, and even when APL engages in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. Accordingly, our financial statements may reflect volatility due to these derivatives, even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point. In addition, it is not always possible for APL to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates its exposure to commodity prices and interest rates. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices and interest rates for which APL is unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. 60 Table of Contents Litigation or governmental regulation relating to environmental protection and operational safety may result in substantial costs and liabilities. APL’s operations are subject to federal and state environmental laws under which owners of natural gas pipelines can be liable for clean-up costs and fines in connection with any pollution caused by their pipelines. APL may also be held liable for clean-up costs resulting from pollution which occurred before its acquisition of the gathering systems. In addition, APL is subject to federal and state safety laws that dictate the type of pipeline, quality of pipe protection, depth, methods of welding and other construction-related standards. Any violation of environmental, construction or safety laws could impose substantial liabilities and costs on APL. APL is also subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. Any violation of OSHA could impose substantial costs on APL. APL cannot predict whether or in what form any new legislation or regulatory requirements might be enacted or adopted, nor can APL predict its costs of compliance. In general, APL expects that new regulations would increase its operating costs and, possibly, require it to obtain additional capital to pay for improvements or other compliance action necessitated by those regulations. APL is subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. APL’s operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incidental to transporting and processing natural gas and NGLs. These hazards include: • damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods and other natural disasters; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leakage of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • fires and explosions; • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations; and • acts of terrorism directed at APL’s pipeline infrastructure, production facilities, transmission and distribution facilities and surrounding properties. As a result, APL may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from its operations. APL may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for some of APL’s insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If APL were to incur a significant liability for which it was not fully insured, its gross margin and cash flows would be materially reduced. APL’s control of the Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems is limited by provisions of the limited liability company operating agreements with Anadarko and, with respect to the Midkiff/Benedum system, the operation and expansion agreement with Pioneer. The managing member of each of the limited liability companies which owns the interests in the Chaney Dell and Midkiff/Benedum systems is APL’s subsidiary. However, the consent of Anadarko is required for specified extraordinary transactions, such as admission of new members, engaging in transactions with APL’s affiliates not approved by the company conflicts committee, incurring debt outside the ordinary course of business and disposing of company assets above specified thresholds. The Midkiff/Benedum system is also governed by an operation and expansion agreement with Pioneer which gives system owners having at least a 60% interest in the system the right to approve the annual operating budget and capital investment budget and to impose other limitations on the operation of the system. Thus, a holder of a greater than 61 Table of Contents 40% interest in the system would effectively have a veto right over the operation of the system. Pioneer currently owns an approximate 27% interest in the system but, pursuant to the purchase option agreement, has the right to acquire up to an additional 22% interest. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 