Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Report. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations, or liquidity. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations, or liquidity. We are subject to numerous risks associated with our planned acquisition by Agrium. On December 3, 2007, we announced that we had entered into the Merger Agreement with Agrium pursuant to which Agrium U.S. Inc., a subsidiary of Agrium, would commence a tender offer at an offer price of $39.00 per share to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, if at least a majority of UAP Holding Corp. shares are tendered and certain other conditions are satisfied, Agrium U.S. Inc. must promptly purchase all of the tendered shares. Following completion of the Tender Offer, Utah Acquisition Co., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agrium, will merge with and into UAP Holding Corp. and we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agrium, thus ending our existence as a standalone publicly-traded company. Beginning with December 3, 2007, the first trading date following the announcement of the Merger Agreement, and continuing through the date hereof, our common stock has traded within a narrow price range: from a low of $37.82 per share on January 22, 2008, to a high of $39.23 per share on January 9, 2008. We expect that a relatively narrow trading range under $39.00 per share is likely to continue until the closing of the Tender Offer and Merger, although there can be no guarantees of such price range. As a result of this relatively narrow trading range, together with the expected $39.00 per share cash payment to be paid to the non-tendering UAP Holding Corp. stockholders pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the returns on any new investments in our common stock may be significantly limited. Because the Tender Offer has not yet been completed, we cannot be sure that the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement will be consummated. Failure to consummate these transactions could have a negative effect on our financial performance and stock price. The obligation of Agrium to consummate the Tender Offer and the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including the absence of the occurrence of any material adverse effect on our business prior to the closing of the Tender Offer. If the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not timely satisfied or waived, our acquisition by Agrium may not occur. These conditions are set forth in the Merger Agreement which we filed with the SEC on December 3, 2007, as an exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K. We cannot ensure that each of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement will be satisfied, and failure to complete these transactions could have a negative effect on our financial performance and stock price. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, it may cause a material disruption to our business and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay Agrium a termination fee of $44 million plus reimbursement for up to $10 million in costs incurred by Agrium in connection with the Tender Offer and Merger. In addition to such adverse consequences and possible adverse effects on our business which may result from the announcement of the Merger Agreement, if the acquisition is not consummated we could suffer a number of further consequences that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including, but not limited to, the following: •we would not realize any anticipated benefits from being a part of a combined company; 14 •the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that its current market price reflects a market assumption that the Tender Offer and Merger will be completed; •we may experience difficulties in attracting customers and strategic partners due to changed perceptions about our competitive position, our management, or other aspects of our business; •we have incurred and may be liable for additional costs related to the Tender Offer and Merger; •activities relating to the acquisition and related uncertainties may lead to a loss of revenue and market position that we may not be able to regain; •we may not be able to retain key employees or attract new employees in areas of growth or need; and •we may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures due to a loss of our sales personnel. Our and our customers' businesses are subject to seasonality and this may affect our revenues, carrying costs, and collection of receivables. Our and our customers' businesses are seasonal, based upon the planting, growing, and harvesting cycles, and the inherent seasonality of the industry we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business. During fiscal years 2006 through 2008, more than 70% of our net sales occurred during the first and second fiscal quarters of each year due to the condensed nature of the planting and growing seasons. Because interim period operating results reflect the seasonal nature of our business, they are not indicative of results expected for the full fiscal year. In addition, quarterly results can vary significantly from one year to the next, primarily due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchase patterns. We incur substantial expenditures for fixed costs throughout the year and substantial expenditures related to inventory in advance of the spring planting season. Seasonality also relates to the limited windows of opportunity that our customers have to complete required tasks at each stage of crop cultivation. Should events such as adverse weather or transportation interruptions occur during these seasonal windows, we would face the possibility of reduced revenue without the opportunity to recover until the following season. In addition, because of the seasonality of agriculture, we face the risk of significant inventory carrying costs should our customers' activities be curtailed during their normal seasons. These factors can also negatively impact the timing of our accounts receivable collections as well as the amount of accounts receivables charged to bad debt expense. Weather conditions may materially impact the demand for our products and services. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the farm economy and, consequently, on our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand and, in some cases, the supply of products, which, in turn, may have an impact on our prices. For example, weather patterns such as flood, drought, or frost can cause crop failures which affect the supply of feed and seed and the marketing of grain products, as well as the demand for chemicals, fertilizer, seed, and other agronomic supplies. In recent years, we have experienced unusually severe weather conditions, including hurricanes, ice storms, floods, wind damage, and drought in some states. Adverse weather conditions can also impact the financial position of agricultural producers who do business with us, including producers to whom we extend credit. This, in turn, may adversely affect the ability of those producers to pay their obligations to us in a timely manner. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations, or liquidity. 15 Our industry is very competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales and profit margins. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, particularly with respect to price and service. Our principal competitors in the distribution of crop production inputs include agricultural cooperatives, international fertilizer producers, major grain companies, multinational corporation-owned distribution outlets, other independent regional and local distributors, and brokers. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, and research and development resources, and/or better name recognition than we do and can better withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, as a result of increased pricing pressures caused by competition, we may experience reductions in profit margins on sales or may be unable to pass future material price increases on to our customers, either of which would reduce our profit margins. Government regulation and agricultural policy may affect the demand for our products and therefore our financial viability. Existing and future government regulations and laws may greatly influence how we operate our business, our business strategy, and, ultimately, our financial viability. Existing and future laws may impact the amounts and locations of pesticide and fertilizer applications. The Clean Water Act and the equivalent state and local water pollution control laws are designed to protect water quality. Pesticide and fertilizer applications have been identified as a source of water pollution and are currently regulated and may be more closely regulated in the future. This regulation may lead to decreases in the quantity of pesticides and fertilizer applied to crops. The application of fertilizer can also result in the emissions of nitrogen compounds and particulate matter into the air. Compliance with future requirements to limit these emissions under the Clean Air Act and the equivalent state and local air pollution control laws may affect the quantity and/or timing of fertilizer used by our customers. U.S. governmental policies and regulations may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of inventories, the mix of crops planted, crop prices, and the amounts of and locations where pesticides and fertilizer may be applied. The market for our products could also be affected by challenges brought under the Endangered Species Act and by changes in regulatory policies affecting genetically modified seeds. Our industry is dependent on farm expenditures for crop inputs. Factors that affect the levels of crop input spending could adversely impact our business. We operate in the agricultural inputs distribution industry. Our industry depends on farm expenditures for crop inputs, which, in turn, is dependent upon planted acreage in the United States. The amount of crop input expenditures and planted acreage can be impacted by the following factors: •grain prices; •crops planted in other parts of the world; •the types of crops planted in the U.S., including shifts from one type to another which have different levels of input spending requirements; •government subsidies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs; •government policies, such as federal legislation mandating greater use of renewable fuels, which have led to an increase in ethanol production and a related increase in the amount of corn grown in the United States; and •our customers' net income levels, which can be impacted by the above factors, as well as interest rates, labor costs, fuel prices, and crop input costs. 16 Our growth within the agricultural inputs distribution industry is partially dependent upon acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future performance. The growth in net sales and operating income of our business depends in part on our ability to expand through acquisitions and on our ability to successfully assimilate new businesses and locations into our existing operations. Our failure to do this could adversely impact our future financial performance. Please refer to "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Building upon our Distribution Network" for more information. We are subject to expenses, claims, and liabilities under environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. As a producer and distributor of crop production inputs, we must comply with federal, state, and local environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. These regulations govern our operations and our storage, handling, discharge, and disposal of a variety of substances. Our operations are regulated at the federal level under numerous laws, including the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, and under analogous state laws and regulations. As a formulator, seller, and distributor of crop production inputs, we are also subject to registration requirements under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and related state statutes, which require us to provide information to regulatory authorities regarding the benefits and risks of the products we sell and distribute and to update that information. Risk information supplied to governmental authorities by us or others could result in the cancellation of products or in limitations on their use. In addition, these laws govern information contained in product labels and in promotional materials, require that products are manufactured in adherence to manufacturing specifications, and impose reporting and recordkeeping requirements relating to production and sale of certain pesticides. Non-compliance with these environmental, health, and safety laws can result in significant fines, penalties, or restrictions on our ability to sell or transport products. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the removal or remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at facilities that we currently own or operate, at facilities that we owned or operated in the past, at neighboring properties to which such contamination has migrated from our facilities, and at third party waste disposal sites to which we have sent waste. We could also be held liable for natural resource damages. We may incur substantial costs to comply with requirements under these environmental, health, and safety laws. We also may incur substantial costs for liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. From time to time, claims have been made against us alleging injury arising out of human exposure to these substances or other damage, including property damages. Currently, four such claims are pending in relation to our Platte facility in Greenville Mississippi. In addition, we may discover currently unknown environmental problems or conditions. The continued compliance with environmental laws, the discovery of currently unknown environmental problems or conditions, changes in environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations or other unanticipated events may subject us to material expenditures or liabilities in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business or pay dividends on our common stock. We currently have a senior secured credit facility consisting of a senior secured term loan with a current principal amount of $396.8 million due June 1, 2012, and a senior secured revolving credit facility with a maximum limit of $675 million, which matures on June 1, 2011. As of February 24, 2008, 17 we had $506.8 million of outstanding indebtedness, consisting of $110.0 million of borrowings under the senior secured revolving credit facility and $396.8 million of borrowings under the term loan facility. We are a highly leveraged company and this level of leverage could have significant consequences, including the following: •limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •our financial results may be more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy; •may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as payments of dividends on our common stock; and •materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, the senior secured credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants discussed below that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. The supply and demand of certain commodities has an impact on our business, and we are sensitive to factors outside of our control. We buy, sell and hold inventories of various commodities, such as fertilizer and certain chemicals. Our revenues and earnings are affected by market prices for these commodities, which prices generally are influenced by a wide range of factors beyond our control. These factors include the weather, the availability and adequacy of supply, demand for these commodities, both locally and globally, government regulation and policies, and general political and economic conditions. Increases in market prices for the commodities that we purchase without a corresponding increase in the prices of our products or our sales volume or a decrease in our other operating expenses, could reduce our gross profit and/or our net income. At any given time, we may have significant prepayments from customers related to future sales of our products. Although we strive to maintain inventory levels and/or have purchase orders to fulfill commitments associated with customer prepayments, in a market of short supply or rising prices there is no guarantee that we will achieve normal operating margins on these amounts. Additionally, in a market where prices are decreasing, our ability to sell our inventory and commitments associated with our vendor prepayments at normal profit margins may be difficult to achieve. Currency exchange rate changes can adversely affect the pricing and profitability of our products. We currently operate sales and service facilities outside of the United States. We also purchase products and materials from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with operations in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and additional costs of compliance with local regulations. These costs could adversely affect our operations and financial results in the future. 18 Restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies or pay dividends on our common stock. The senior secured credit facility limits our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations; •pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; •repurchase or redeem our stock; •make investments; •grant liens; •make capital expenditures; •enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; •sell assets; and •acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies. In addition, the senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in our senior secured credit facility) if our revolving credit availability drops below $50.0 million. We may not be able to maintain this ratio in the future. Covenants in the senior secured revolving credit facility may also impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, or to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures, or to engage in other favorable business activities. If we default under the senior secured credit facility under certain circumstances, the lenders could require immediate payment of the entire principal amount. These circumstances include, among other things, a change of control, default under agreements governing any other indebtedness, material judgments in excess of a specified amount, or breach of representations and warranties. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facility require immediate repayment, we may not be able to repay them in full. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions contained in the senior secured credit facility may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. Our profitability depends significantly on rebates from our suppliers. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating, earning, or collecting rebates, it could have an adverse impact on our business. We receive rebates from chemical and seed suppliers based on programs offered to their customers. The programs vary based on product type and specific supplier practice. The majority of the rebate programs run on a crop year basis, typically from September 1st to August 31st, although other periods are sometimes utilized. The majority of these rebates are product-specific and are based on our sales of that product in a given crop year. Our ability to negotiate, earn, and collect rebates is critical to the success of our business. We price our products to our customers based on the cost of the products less the amount of rebates we expect to receive at the end of the crop year. However, the amount of rebates we earn and the nature of our rebate programs are determined by our suppliers and are directly related to the performance of our business. If our sales in any crop year are lower than expected, either because of poor weather conditions, increased competition, or for any other reason, we may earn fewer rebates, and our gross margins may suffer. Additionally, our suppliers may reduce the amount of rebates offered under their programs or increase the sales goals or other conditions we must meet to earn rebates to levels that we cannot achieve. Finally, our ability to negotiate individually for additional rebates may cease or become limited, and our efforts to collect cash rebates periodically throughout the year may be unsuccessful. 19 The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations, or liquidity. For more information, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Vendor Rebate Receivables" and Note 1 in the "Notes to our Financial Statements." UAP Holding Corp. is a holding company and we rely on our subsidiaries for cash to pay dividends on our common stock. UAP Holding Corp. has no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the stock of United Agri Products, Inc. Because UAP Holding Corp. conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, UAP Holding Corp. depends on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in the senior secured credit facility and any other agreements governing future indebtedness of UAP Holding Corp.'s subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of UAP Holding Corp.'s subsidiaries, may limit UAP Holding Corp.'s ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. All of UAP Holding Corp.'s subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation whatsoever to pay any dividends, distributions, or other payments to UAP Holding Corp. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 