Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. You should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including the information provided under “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Risks related to our business Our business requires a significant amount of cash, and if we are unable to obtain the cash required to execute our business plan, our business and financial condition will be significantly harmed. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our loan production, to pay our loan production expenses, to purchase mortgage servicing rights, and to hold our mortgage loans pending securitization. We also require cash to meet our working capital and other needs. Furthermore, we need cash to meet our minimum REIT dividend distribution requirements. Because we are required to distribute annually to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains and including, in some instances, taxable income recognized where we do not receive corresponding cash) to qualify as a REIT, our ability to reduce debt and finance growth depends in large part on external sources of capital. In addition, if our minimum distribution requirements to maintain our REIT status become large relative to our cash flow as a result of our taxable income exceeding our cash flow from operations, then we may be required to borrow funds or raise capital to meet those distribution requirements. We may not be able to do so on reasonable terms or at all. We depend on borrowings and securitizations to fund our mortgage loans, acquire mortgage servicing rights, finance servicing advance receivables, and reach our desired amount of leverage, which exposes us to liquidity risks. If we fail to obtain or renew sufficient funding on favorable terms or at all, we will be limited in our ability to make mortgage loans, acquire mortgage servicing rights or finance servicing advance receivables which will harm our results of operations. We depend on short-term borrowings to initially fund our mortgage loan originations and purchases, acquire mortgage servicing rights, and reach our desired amount of leverage. Our ability to accumulate loans for securitization depends to a large extent upon our ability to secure interim financing on acceptable terms. Accordingly, our ability to achieve our loan production, mortgage servicing rights acquisition, and leverage objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. In addition, we must be able to renew or replace our maturing short-term borrowings on a continuous basis. We depend on a few lenders to provide the primary financing facilities for our mortgage loan production and mortgage servicing rights acquisitions. As of December 31, 2005, we had short-term committed financing facilities consisting of $1.7 billion of warehouse lines of credit and repurchase agreement facilities with variable rates of interest with five separate financial institutions (of which $0.4 billion was outstanding on that date). These facilities generally are committed for 364 days, subject to customary renewal and cancellation provisions. If our lenders do not allow us to renew our borrowings, or change sublimits applicable to the types of assets we finance, or we cannot replace maturing borrowings on favorable terms or at all, we might have to sell our mortgage-related assets under adverse market conditions or might not be able to originate or purchase mortgage loans and mortgage servicing rights, which would harm our results of operations and may result in permanent losses. It is possible that the lenders under our financing facilities could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to us, independent of our performance or the performance of our loans or mortgage servicing rights. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, they may be required to increase significantly the cost of the financing facilities that they provide to us. Moreover, the amount of financing we receive under our financing facilities is directly related to the lender’s valuation of the mortgage loans and mortgage servicing rights that secure the outstanding borrowings. Our financing facilities grant the lender the absolute right to re-evaluate the market value of the mortgage loans and mortgage servicing rights that secure our outstanding borrowings at any time. In determining the market value of our mortgage servicing rights, our lenders rely on periodic third-party appraisals. In the event the lender determines that the value of the mortgage loans has decreased, it has the right to initiate a margin call. A margin call would require us to transfer additional mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights to the lender (without any advance of funds from the lender for such transfer of mortgage loans) or to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings. Any such margin call could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. All of our financing facilities are subject to financial covenants and other restrictions and contain cross-default provisions. If we are unable to operate within the covenants and restrictions or obtain waivers, all amounts that we owe under our financing facilities could become immediately payable and the undrawn portions of these facilities could become unavailable to us. The involuntary termination of a credit facility, or the acceleration of our debt under a credit facility, would impact all of our financing facilities and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, upon our ability to securitize our mortgage loans and mortgage servicing advance receivables to generate cash for repayment of short-term credit, including warehouse lines of credit and repurchase facilities, to finance mortgage servicing advance receivables, and to finance mortgage loans for the remainder of each mortgage loan’s life. We may not be successful in securitizing mortgage loans or mortgage servicing advance receivables that we accumulate in the future. Our ability to complete securitizations of our loans and mortgage servicing advance receivables in a timely manner, at favorable prices or at all will depend on a number of factors, including conditions in the securities markets generally, conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically, the availability of credit enhancement on acceptable economic terms or at all, our ability to perform our role as servicer for our owned portfolio of mortgage loans and for third parties, and the performance of our portfolio of securitized loans and mortgage servicing advance receivables. We currently seek to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of between approximately 12:1 and 17:1, although our ratio may at times be above or below this amount. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2005 was 11:1. Although we incur this leverage to enhance our returns, this leverage, which is fundamental to our business strategy, also exposes us to liquidity risks. The residential mortgage loan origination business is cyclical and is expected to decline in 2006 and upcoming years, which could reduce the level of mortgage loans we produce in the future and adversely impact our business in the future. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The residential mortgage industry has experienced rapid growth over the past several years due primarily to declining and historically low interest rates. The MBAA has predicted that residential mortgage loan originations will decrease in 2006 due to rising interest rates, which tend to lead to decreases in refinancing activity. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. Because a substantial portion of our mortgage loan production involves refinancings, a decrease in refinancings would result in a decreased volume of loan production by us in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2005, 20% of the loans held in our portfolio were purchase mortgage loans, 73% were refinancings with a cash component and 7% were refinancings without a cash component. Due to stable and decreasing interest rates over recent years, our historical performance may not be indicative of results in a rising interest rate environment, and our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected as interest rates rise. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past several years, residential real estate values in some areas of the United States have increased greatly, which has contributed to the recent rapid growth in the residential mortgage industry, particularly with respect to refinancings with a cash component. If residential real estate values decline, this could lead to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We face intense competition that could adversely affect our market share and revenues. We face intense competition from finance and mortgage banking companies and other mortgage REITs, investment banks, Internet-based lenders, and, to a growing extent, from traditional bank and thrift lenders who have entered or increased their focus on the sub-prime, non-conforming mortgage loan market. In addition, some large financial institutions have been gradually expanding their non-conforming lending capabilities. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are, have better name recognition than we have and have far greater financial and other resources than we have. We operate at a competitive disadvantage to federal banks and thrifts, and their subsidiaries, because they enjoy federal preemption and, as a result, conduct their business under relatively uniform federal rules and standards and are generally not subject to the laws of the states in which they do business (including state “predatory lending” laws). Unlike our federally-chartered competitors, we are generally subject to all state and local laws applicable to mortgage lenders in each jurisdiction in which we lend, including new laws directed at sub-prime, residential mortgage lending. Moreover, the rating agencies impose restrictions and requirements on non-federally-chartered entities arising from certain state or local lending-related laws or regulations that do not apply to federally-chartered institutions. This disparity may have the effect of giving those federally-chartered entities legal and competitive advantages over us. The intense competition in the sub-prime, non-conforming mortgage loan market has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards, and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, where entry barriers are relatively low, we may be required to make significant changes to our current mortgage loan production structure and information systems to compete effectively. Our inability to continue developing a successful Internet operation, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Competition in the mortgage industry can take many forms, including interest rates and costs of a loan, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, amount and term of a loan and marketing and distribution channels. We have experienced extremely intense price competition in our industry recently. Increased competition could have the effect on us of: · forcing us to lower the interest rates, origination points and fees that we are able to charge borrowers, which would lower our interest income and the value of the loans in our portfolio; · increasing our costs of producing loans; · reducing the volume of our loan production and securitizations; and · pressuring us to adopt less stringent underwriting standards in response to competitive pressures from our competitors that lower their standards, which would expose us to greater credit risk without compensating increases in pricing. Any increase in these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on us. Fluctuations in interest rates and general economic conditions may also affect our competitive position. During periods of rising rates, competitors that have locked in low borrowing costs may have a competitive advantage. During periods of declining rates, competitors may solicit our customers to refinance their mortgage loans. Furthermore, a cyclical decline in the mortgage industry’s overall level of originations, or decreased demand for mortgage loans due to a higher interest rate environment, may lead to increased competition for the remaining mortgage loans. We might be prevented from securitizing our mortgage loans at opportune times and prices, which could adversely affect our ability to generate cash flow. We rely on our securitizations to generate cash for repayment of our financing facilities, production of new mortgage loans, and general working capital purposes. We also rely on this cash to make distributions to our shareholders to maintain our status as a REIT. We bear the risk of being unable to securitize our mortgage loans at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner, or at all. If it is not possible or economical for us to complete the securitization of a substantial portion of our mortgage loans, we may exceed our capacity under our warehouse and repurchase financing, be unable or limited in our ability to pay down our financing facilities and to originate and purchase mortgage loans, or be required to liquidate mortgage loans when the market value of the loans is low and potentially incur a loss on the sale transaction. Furthermore, if we cannot generate sufficient liquidity upon any such sale, we will be unable to continue our operations, grow our loan portfolio and manage our exposure to interest rate risk. The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Defaults on the mortgage loans in our securitization pools may impact our ability to market future pools. The performance of mortgage loans we have sold or securitized in the past could limit our ability to sell or securitize mortgage loans in the future, if the pools perform poorly. The securitization market depends upon a number of factors, including general economic conditions, conditions in the securities markets generally and conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically. In addition, the historical performance of the mortgage loans we produce may impact the perceived value of any future asset-backed securities we may attempt to issue, which could adversely affect the ratings of our asset-backed securities. If rating agencies issue unfavorable ratings or lower their rating relating to our asset-backed securities, the costs of our future securitizations could increase and we may be limited in our ability to securitize our mortgage loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Furthermore, the rating agencies could require us to increase the over-collateralization level for our securitizations. Increases in our over-collateralization levels would have a negative impact on the value of our retained interests in our securitizations and could require additional capital to fund the over-collateralization, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully execute our credit enhancement strategies, which could restrict our access to financing and adversely affect our business. The structure we employ in securitization transactions requires credit enhancement. Since 1997, all of our securitizations have used credit enhancement to improve the price at which we issue our asset-backed securities. We currently expect that the credit enhancement for the asset-backed securities will be primarily in the form of overcollateralization, which refers to the extent to which the mortgage loan balance in our securitizations exceeds the balance of the issued asset-backed securities, designating another portion of the securities we issue as “subordinate securities” (which have a lower payment priority and on which the credit risk from the mortgage loans is concentrated), paying for financial guaranty insurance policies for the loans, or a combination of the foregoing. If we use overcollateralization, we apply excess cash flow (mortgage interest income net of interest on the asset-backed securities, losses, and servicing fees) to pay down the asset-backed securities of the trust. If the amount of asset-backed securities as a result is reduced faster than the underlying mortgage loans are repaid, overcollateralization is created. We usually sell any subordinate securities we receive in a securitization. The market for any subordinate securities we issue could become temporarily illiquid or trade at steep discounts, thereby reducing the cash flow we receive over time from our mortgage loans in instances when we securitize using subordinate securities as credit enhancement. If we use financial guaranty insurance policies and the expense of these insurance policies increases, the net interest income we receive will be reduced. Credit enhancement features may not enable us to achieve desirable levels of net interest income from the securitizations of our mortgage loans. The use of securitizations with overcollateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. Other performance tests (based on delinquency levels and cumulative losses) may restrict our ability to receive excess cash flow from a securitization transaction. In addition, rating agencies may place additional performance tests based on other criteria in future securitizations. The performance tests may not be satisfied. Furthermore, the actual terms of such delinquency tests, overcollateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors that impact the amount or timing of the release of net interest income to us. The failure to negotiate such terms on a favorable basis may materially and adversely affect the availability of net excess income to us. The timing of cash flows from our securitizations may be uncertain. The net cash flow income we receive from our securitizations generally represents an interest in a junior security. Generally, so long as excess cash flow is being directed to the senior securities of a securitization trust to achieve overcollateralization, we will not receive distributions from the related securitized pool. Also, because the application of the excess cash flow to the senior securities of a securitization trust depends upon the performance of the related mortgage loans, there may be material variations in the amount, if any, of the excess cash flow distributed to us from period to period, and there may be extended periods when we do not receive excess cash flow. Any variations in the rate or timing of our receipt of distributions may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to increased risk of default, foreclosure and losses associated with our strategy of lending to lower credit grade borrowers and/or purchasing loans in bulk. We specialize in originating, purchasing, securitizing and servicing mortgage loans to credit-impaired borrowers and borrowers that are ineligible to qualify for loans from conventional mortgage sources, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, due to loan size, credit characteristics or documentation standards. Credit characteristics that may cause a loan to be ineligible for conventional mortgage funding include relatively high levels of debt service carried by the borrower, higher LTV of the loan or past credit write-offs, outstanding judgments, prior bankruptcies or other credit items that cause a borrower to fail to satisfy Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines. Examples of documentation standards that are not eligible for conventional mortgage loans may include borrowers who provide limited or no documentation of income in connection with the underwriting of the related mortgage loans. Loans to lower credit grade borrowers generally experience higher-than-average delinquency, default and loss rates than do conforming mortgage loans. In addition, rising unemployment, higher interest rates or declines in housing prices tend to have a greater negative effect on the ability of such borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2005, 78% of the loans in our portfolio were sub-prime, meaning that they have a credit score of 660 or below. Because we use portfolio accounting for our securitizations, loan delinquencies and defaults can also cause reductions in our interest income and adversely affect our operating results, both with respect to unsecuritized loans and loans that we have securitized, as well as adversely affect our cash flows. If loan delinquencies and losses exceed expected levels, the fair market value of the mortgage loans held for investment and as collateral for warehouse and repurchase financing, as well as the loan servicing-related assets on our consolidated balance sheet, may be adversely affected. If delinquencies and losses are greater than we expect, our ability to obtain financing and continue to securitize loans on attractive terms, or at all, may be adversely affected. If we underestimate the extent of losses that our loans will incur, or the reserves that we establish for such losses are insufficient, then our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our underwriting criteria or collection methods may not afford adequate protection against the higher risks associated with loans made to lower credit grade borrowers. In addition, our contemplated new strategy of purchasing more loans in bulk, through our conduit bulk purchase process, from correspondent lenders and securitizing them while re-underwriting only a sample of the loans purchased could increase our credit losses for loans with credit scores equivalent to the loans we re-underwrite fully before we purchase them. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. Our interest-only loans and other adjustable-payment mortgage loans may have a higher risk of default than our fully-amortizing loans. During the year ended December 31, 2005, production of interest-only loans totaled $1.2 billion, or 36%, of our total loan production. These interest-only loans generally require the borrowers to make monthly payments of accrued interest, but not principal, for the first 60 months following origination. After such interest-only period, the borrower's monthly payment is recalculated, and most likely increases, to cover both interest and principal so that the mortgage loan will amortize fully prior to its final payment date. The interest-only feature may reduce the likelihood of prepayment during the interest-only period due to the lower monthly payments relative to a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. However, if the recalculated monthly payment is substantially higher than the borrower’s previous interest-only monthly payment, the loan may be subject to increased risk of delinquency and default. Because no principal payments may be made on such mortgage loans for an extended period following origination, if the borrower defaults, the unpaid principal balance of the related mortgage loan will be greater than otherwise would be the case, increasing the risk of loss in that situation. In times of rising interest rates, declining real estate markets and economic slowdowns, the default risks associated with interest-only mortgage loans and other adjustable-payment mortgage loans, such as adjustable-rate mortgage loans, hybrid loans, and option adjustable-rate mortgage loans, increase. These loan products all enable a borrower to incur substantially greater mortgage debt than would be available with a standard amortizing fixed-rate mortgage loan, but result in potentially significant increases in monthly mortgage payments after the initial period or in times of rising interest rates. When borrowers' monthly mortgage payment obligations increase, they may find themselves unable to meet such obligations, particularly if their incomes have not grown. Borrowers who intend to avoid increased monthly payments by refinancing may not be able to obtain a new adjustable payment mortgage loan at a similar low rate or an interest-only mortgage loan. Furthermore, if housing prices decline, they may not be able to borrow sufficient amounts to pay off the existing mortgage loan. Any of these factors, or a combination of these factors, could result in a substantial increase in mortgage loan defaults. We are subject to risks related to mortgage loans in our portfolio, including borrower defaults, fraud losses and other losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies, fraud losses and special hazard losses on the mortgage loans in our portfolio that have not been securitized. In the event of any default under such mortgage loans, we will bear the risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal amount of the mortgage loan. Also, the costs of financing the mortgage loans could exceed the interest income we receive on the mortgage loans. If these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. If we do not successfully implement our growth strategy, our financial performance could be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth, which has placed, and will continue to place, substantial pressure on our infrastructure. To maintain this level of growth, we may require additional capital and other resources beyond what we expect to have following the consummation of the transactions described in this report. We may not be able to: (1) meet our capital needs; (2) expand our systems effectively; (3) optimally allocate our human resources; (4) identify and hire qualified employees; (5) satisfactorily perform our production, servicing, and securitization functions; or (6) effectively incorporate the components of any businesses that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. Our failure to manage growth effectively could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have securitized or sold, or to indemnify purchasers of our loans. We make representations and warranties about the mortgage loans we securitize and sell. If a mortgage loan did not comply with the representations and warranties that we made with respect to it at the time of its securitization or sale, we could be required to repurchase the loan or replace it with a substitute loan. If this occurs, we may have to bear any associated losses directly. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of securitized, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach. Repurchased loans typically are financed at a steep discount to the repurchase price, if at all. Any significant substitutions, repurchases or indemnifications could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Investors may require greater returns relative to benchmark rates. The securities issued in our securitizations are typically issued with various ratings and are priced at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as LIBOR or the yield based on comparable maturity swaps. If the spread that investors require over the benchmark widens and the rates we charge on our mortgage loans are not increased accordingly, we may experience a reduction in proceeds and a material adverse effect on our net interest income from our securitizations, resulting in a reduction in the economic value of the pool of mortgage loans that we have produced. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The acquisition of mortgage servicing rights requires many assumptions and complex analysis. We make assumptions regarding the performance of the underlying pool of mortgage loans, future interest rates, and pool-specific servicing requirements and perform complex analyses using those assumptions in determining whether and at what price to purchase mortgage servicing rights. If our assumptions or analyses are incorrect, the value of the mortgage servicing rights that we have acquired could be substantially reduced. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our servicing rights may be terminated if delinquencies occur on the loans we service. We retain servicing rights upon the securitization of a pool of mortgage loans and also purchase the rights to provide mortgage loan servicing for third parties. As of December 31, 2005, 74% of the mortgage loans we serviced by principal balance were owned by third parties (including loans securitized by our predecessor for which Dominion Capital owns the residual interests). The remainder represented loans we retained on our balance sheet. In addition to termination in the event we default in our duties as servicer, our servicing rights may be terminated by the securitization trustee at the direction of holders of a majority of the certificates issued in the securitization if delinquencies or losses on the pool of loans in a particular securitization exceed, for any reason, prescribed levels at any time. As of December 31, 2005, we serviced a total of 15 securitizations in our owned portfolio and 51 third party securitizations. As of December 31, 2005, delinquencies and losses exceeded the prescribed levels for nine of the 51 third party securitizations and for none of the securitizations in our owned portfolio that we service. These nine third party securitizations, each of which was issued in or prior to 2001, had an aggregate unpaid principal balance at December 31, 2005 of $404.4 million, which represented 2% of our total servicing portfolio. In addition, our servicing rights may be terminated on certain pools of mortgage loans as a result of other factors such as a rating agency downgrade. Our servicing rights could be terminated in the manner described above on those or any other securitizations. Our dependence on information systems may result in problems if these systems fail or are interrupted. We rely on communications and information systems to conduct our business. As we implement our growth strategy and increase our volume of loan production over the Internet, that reliance will increase. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems or third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received. Any such failure, interruption, or compromise of our systems or security measures we employ could affect our flow of business and, if prolonged, could harm our reputation. The risk of possible failures or interruptions may not be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely, and such failures or interruptions could occur. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our business depends upon our ability to interface with our brokers, correspondents, borrowers, third party sellers of mortgage servicing rights and other third parties, to process loan applications and closings efficiently and to conduct our servicing operations effectively. Our dedication to incorporating technological advancements in the conduct of both our loan production and servicing businesses requires significant financial and personnel resources. Among other things, we recently completed the installation of our fully automated underwriting system and are in the process of converting to a web-based origination system. The implementation of these and other new technologies may not be successful. To the extent that we become reliant on any particular technology or technological solution, we may be harmed to the extent that such technology or technological solution (i) becomes non-compliant with existing industry standards, (ii) fails to meet or exceed the capabilities of our competitors' equivalent technologies or technological solutions, (iii) becomes increasingly expensive to service, retain and update or (iv) becomes subject to third-party claims of copyright or patent infringement. Any failure to acquire technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and could also limit our ability to increase our operating efficiencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the suspension or termination of these licenses could cause system delays or interruptions. Most of the software applications that we use in both our underwriting and servicing systems are licensed from, and maintained by, third-party vendors. In the future, this software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if substitute technologies are, or become, available, it is not certain that we will be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. Potential system failures or breaches, or the loss of any third-party technologies on which we are dependent, and the cost necessary to correct or replace them could result in financial loss, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We depend on third parties for many administrative and operational services, and the loss or disruption of such services could have a material adverse effect on us. We outsource many of our administrative and operational services to third-party services providers, including, but not limited to, tax tracking, insurance tracking, foreclosure and bankruptcy tracking and document management. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions over which we may have limited or no control and that could adversely impact us. If the services of any of our third-party service providers were to become unavailable, it is not certain that we would be able to obtain substitute servicers on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our reliance on our outside vendors exposes us to risks including: the possibility that one or more of our vendors could terminate their services at any time without notice; reduced control over pricing, quality and timing of service due to the difficulties related to switching to alternative vendors; and the potential delays and expenses of seeking alternative sources of service. Our management has limited experience operating a REIT and our management’s past experience may not be sufficient to successfully manage our business as a REIT. Prior to September 24, 2004, we were not operated as a REIT. Our management has limited experience in complying with the income, asset, and other limitations imposed by the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Those provisions are complex, and the failure to comply with those provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a REIT or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties. In such event, our net income would be reduced and we could incur a loss. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any year, we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates for that year. Also, unless the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, grants us relief under certain statutory provisions, we will remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year in which we first fail to qualify. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will have to pay significant income taxes and will therefore have less money available to pay our other obligations and to fund our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Our interest rate risk management strategies may not be successful in mitigating the risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. In light of our recent accounting policy change, all gains and losses on our derivatives, as well as any cash settlements received on these derivatives, are recorded in derivatives gains (losses) on our consolidated statements of operations. When rates change, we expect the gain or loss on derivatives to be offset by a related but inverse change in the value of the debt related to the financing of our mortgage loan portfolio. Our use of derivatives may not offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. It is likely that there will be periods in the future during which we will incur losses on our derivative financial instruments that will not be fully offset by gains on the debt related to the financing of our mortgage loan portfolio, which has occurred in the past, or vice versa. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could significantly increase our risk and lead to material losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. Our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use may not adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility, and our hedging transactions may result in losses. Our hedging strategies may be limited by REIT requirements. Our hedging strategy is intended to lessen the effects of interest rate changes and to enable us to earn net interest income in periods of generally rising, declining or static, interest rates. In managing our derivative instruments, we consider the effect of the expected income derived from those derivative instruments on the REIT qualification tests that limit the amount of gross income that a REIT may receive from hedging. To the extent we can do so consistently with the tax law applicable to hedging, and with our overall hedging strategy, we may from time to time identify hedge instruments as relating to various hedged liabilities to allow certain hedging income to be excluded from the REIT 95% gross income test. We need to carefully monitor, and may have to limit, our asset/liability management program to assure that we do not realize hedging income, or hold hedges having a value, in excess of the amounts permitted by the REIT gross income and asset tests. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge. The tax law provides that income and gain derived from transactions entered into by a REIT in the normal course of its trade or business to hedge the risk of interest rate, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to indebtedness incurred or to be incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, such as mortgage loans, represent a source of income that is excluded for purposes of the 95% gross income test (but not for the 75% gross income test). The treatment of hedging transactions entered into for the purpose of hedging assets rather than indebtedness is not clear. In addition, the treatment of hedging transactions under the quarterly asset tests is not clear. We may find that in certain instances we must hedge risks incurred by us through transactions entered into by a taxable REIT subsidiary. Hedging our risk through a taxable REIT subsidiary would be inefficient on an after-tax basis because of the tax liability imposed on the taxable REIT subsidiary. We are required to advance borrowers’ monthly principal and interest payments for securitized loans that we service before receiving the corresponding payment from the borrower (even if a loan is past due). Additionally, we are also required to advance servicing expenses related to the mortgage loans we service. These advances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Under securitization servicing agreements for our owned portfolio and third-party portfolios that we service, we are required to advance scheduled payments to the trustee in the amount of the borrower’s monthly mortgage payment less our servicing fee even if the monthly payment on the underlying mortgage has not been paid to us and even if a loan is substantially past due. Under all servicing agreements we are also required to advance servicing expenses related to the mortgage loans (such as payment of delinquent taxes and foreclosure expenses, etc.). In each case, these advances of monthly payments and servicing expenses are made with funds we borrow under our servicing advance facility, and therefore, we rely upon this facility as a source of liquidity. Our obligation to make these advances continues monthly until the related mortgage loan has been liquidated or we make a determination that such an advance will not be recovered upon the final liquidation of the related mortgage loan. Even then, we are unable to recoup such advances until the mortgage loan is brought current, paid off or liquidated through foreclosure. To the extent we make such advances without reimbursement by the borrower, we are at risk of not recovering the amounts we advance. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to borrow the funds we need to make these advances on reasonable terms or at all, and we may not have adequate cash from operations with which to make such advances, thereby requiring us to sell some of our loans or raise capital to fund the advances, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms or at all, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We depend on brokers and correspondent lenders for a substantial portion of our loan production. We depend, to a large extent, on brokers and correspondent lenders for our originations and purchases of mortgage loans. In 2005, 79% of our mortgage loan production was generated through brokers and correspondents. Moreover, our total loan purchases from correspondent lenders, historically, have been highly concentrated. Our top three correspondent lenders accounted for 28%, 24% and 30% of our total correspondent loan volume and 9%, 7% and 9% of our total volume for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. None of our top three correspondent lenders in each of those years individually accounted for 10% or more of our total correspondent loan volume in the relevant year other than Accredited Home Lenders, which accounted for 13% and 14% of our total correspondent loan volume for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively; and HomeOwners Loan, which accounted for 12% of our total correspondent loan volume for the year ended December 31, 2003. In 2006, we expect the amount of mortgage loans that we purchase from correspondent lenders to increase. See “Business - Mortgage loan production segment - Correspondent channel.” Our brokers and correspondent lenders are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with the same brokers and correspondent lenders and actively compete with us in our efforts to expand our broker and correspondent networks. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker and correspondent networks. The failure to do so could negatively impact the volume and pricing of our loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Geographic concentration of our mortgage loan production increases our exposure to risks in those areas, particularly California. Concentration of loans we originate or purchase in any one geographic area increases our vulnerability to economic and natural hazard risks associated with that area, such as earthquakes and flooding. In particular, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, 19% and 21%, respectively, of the mortgage loans in our portfolio that we produced were secured by property located in California. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, or the occurrence of natural disasters that are not covered by standard homeowners’ insurance policies, such as earthquakes, mudslides, extensive wildfires, flooding, tornadoes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, in areas in which our mortgage loans are heavily concentrated could adversely affect the value of mortgaged premises in those areas and increase the risk of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy, or loss on mortgage loans in our portfolio. This would negatively affect our ability to originate, purchase, and securitize mortgage loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Furthermore, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as one involving substantial flooding, like Hurricane Katrina, which struck Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi and surrounding areas on August 29, 2005, poses additional risks and uncertainties for our business, including: increase in tax and insurance advance costs; conflicts of claim management between homeowners insurance and flood policy insurance; delinquency and foreclosure advance costs on losses on mortgage loans secured by homes that might be damaged beyond repair; and an increase in non-payment of mortgage loans due to the displacement of homeowners and their inability to make their mortgage payments, which can, and did in 2005, lead to increases in our loan loss reserve and MSR impairment charges and other adverse effects on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may be subject to environmental risks with respect to properties to which we take title. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we foreclose on properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be found on these properties, and we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and cleanup costs incurred in connection with the contamination. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we could be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Loss of our key management could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our personnel, other than for Michael L. Sawyer, our Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of the services of: Mr. Sawyer; Robert B. Eastep, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; David L. Dill, our Executive Vice President, Servicing; or James V. Smith, our Executive Vice President, Production could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. In addition, we depend on our account executives to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with other financial institutions, mortgage companies and brokers, real estate agents and brokers, corporations, and others. These relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives is highly competitive. Competition for qualified account executives may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled account executives at manageable costs, our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, appraisers, other vendors, and our employees could subject us to losses. When we originate or purchase mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is misrepresented and the misrepresentation is not detected before loan funding, the value of the mortgage loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party, or one of our employees makes a misrepresentation, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A mortgage loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase if it is sold before detection of the misrepresentation. In addition, the persons and entities making a misrepresentation are often difficult to locate and it is often difficult to collect from them any monetary losses we have suffered. The controls and processes we have designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our loan production operations were designed to obtain reasonable, not absolute, assurance that such information is identified and addressed appropriately. Accordingly, such controls may not have detected, and may fail in the future to detect, all misrepresented information in our loan production operations. As a financial institution, we receive, maintain and store the non-public personal information of our applicants and borrowers in paper form and on our computer systems. If this information is inappropriately accessed and used by a third party or an employee for illegal purposes such as identity theft, we may be responsible to the affected applicant or borrower for any losses he or she may have incurred as a result of misappropriation. Also, in such an instance, we may be liable to a governmental authority for fines or penalties associated with a lapse in the integrity and security of our customers’ information. The controls and processes designed to secure our customer information and to prevent, detect and remedy any unauthorized access to that information are designed to obtain reasonable, not absolute, assurance that such information is identified and addressed appropriately. Accordingly, such controls may not have detected, and may in the future fail to prevent or detect, unauthorized access to our customer information. Risks related to interest rates and general economic conditions An increase in interest rates may reduce overall demand for mortgage loans, reduce our net interest income or otherwise adversely affect our business or profitability. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our business or profitability in a number of ways, including the following: · reduce the overall demand for mortgage loans; · reduce the spread we earn between the interest we receive on our mortgage loans and the interest we pay under our financing facilities and on our asset-backed securities; · cause the fair market value of the loans on our balance sheet, our asset-backed certificates, and retained interests in securitizations to decline; and · lead to a decrease in prepayments of our loans by our customers, resulting in a decrease in the amount of income we receive from prepayment penalties and an increase in the likelihood of default by our customers. A majority of our financing facilities is floating-rate debt that is indexed to short-term interest rates and adjusts periodically at various intervals. Interest expense on asset-backed securities is typically adjusted monthly relative to market interest rates. Because the interest expense we pay on our asset-backed securities typically adjusts faster than the interest income we earn on the mortgage loans we securitize, our net interest income can be volatile in response to increases in interest rates. Net interest losses would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, our adjustable-rate mortgage loans have interest rate caps, which limit the amount the interest rates charged to the borrower can increase in each adjustment period. Our financing facilities borrowings and asset-backed securities are not subject to similar restrictions. As a result, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while the increase in interest rates we earn on our adjustable-rate mortgage loans would be capped. If this occurs, our net interest spread could be significantly reduced or we could suffer a net interest loss. This may also reduce the amount of cash we receive over the life of any retained interests in future securitizations and require us to reduce the carrying value of any retained interests. Furthermore, rising interest rates can increase the level of defaults on our mortgage loans, which would increase our servicing costs. Increases in our servicing costs would reduce the value of our servicing rights and could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our assets and on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, the delinquency rates on mortgage loans (including REO) that were seriously delinquent (60+ days past due) that we serviced were 7.92%, 5.26%, and 8.89%, respectively. Our risk-based pricing approach and hedging strategies are based in part on the information in our historical performance databases. We estimate the projected weighted average life of our loans based on certain assumptions regarding the speed or rate of prepayments and generally enter into hedging instruments designed to fix our costs of borrowing for a period close to the anticipated average life of the loan. During periods of rising interest rates, borrowers are less likely to prepay their existing mortgage loans due to the lack of attractive refinancing options. If prepayment rates decrease and loans remain outstanding beyond the expected life of the loans, those loans may not be protected by our related hedging instruments. In addition, decreases in loan prepayments result in decreases in prepayment penalty income. Furthermore, fewer prepayments could lead to increased defaults on our mortgage loans because the risk of borrower default tends to rise as the term of a loan extends. Each of the conditions described above could reduce our net interest income or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Declining interest rates could lead to more prepayments of our loans by our customers, adversely impact the value of our servicing rights or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. In general, if prevailing interest rates fall below the interest rate on a mortgage loan, the borrower is more likely to prepay the then higher rate mortgage loan than if prevailing rates remain at or above the interest rate on the existing mortgage loan. Unexpected principal prepayments could adversely affect our results of operations to the extent we are unable to reinvest the funds we receive at an equivalent or higher yield rate, if at all. If our customers prepay their mortgage loans sooner than expected, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. While we seek to minimize prepayment risk through a variety of means in producing our mortgage loans, we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns on each mortgage loan. Increased levels of prepayments could reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Declining interest rates would adversely affect the value of our mortgage servicing rights and we periodically evaluate the value of these rights for impairment. In a declining interest rate environment, the increased likelihood of mortgage prepayments, which would eliminate the servicing rights for the prepaid mortgage loans, could lead to an impairment that could have a material adverse impact on the value of our assets and our results of operations. In addition, a decline in prevailing interest rates could have the following consequences for us: · reduce our total interest revenue as we compete for loan originations against other loan providers who offer lower interest rates; · diminish the value of adjustable rate mortgage loans and servicing assets on our consolidated balance sheet; and · reduce the spreads available to us. Each of the above consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession could harm our operations. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods can be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit and declining real estate values. Because we make a substantial number of loans to credit-impaired borrowers, rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, and losses on our loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the mortgage lending industry during periods of economic slowdown or recession. In addition, declining real estate values negatively affect loan-to-value ratios of home equity collateral, which reduces borrowers’ ability to use home equity to obtain cash in refinancings in order to support other borrowings or for other purposes. This is likely to result in a decrease in our level of new loan production. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures, or losses could adversely affect our ability to originate, purchase, and securitize loans, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Interests in real property secure our mortgage loans and we may suffer a loss if the value of the underlying property declines. Interests in real property secure the mortgage loans we produce. If the value of the property underlying a mortgage loan decreases, our risk of loss with respect to the mortgage loan increases. A substantial number of our mortgage loans were originated in areas of the United States, such as portions of California, that have seen significant appreciation in real estate prices over the past few years. A decline in real estate prices generally or in regions where we have heavy loan concentrations could negatively impact the value of the mortgage loans held in our portfolio that are secured by homes in those areas. Furthermore, if the recent rapid increase in real estate prices ceases or real estate prices decline, borrowers who intend to sell their properties on or before the expiration of the fixed rate periods or interest-only periods on their adjustable payment mortgage loans may find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans. In the event there is a default under a mortgage loan, our sole recourse may be to foreclose on the mortgage loan to recover the outstanding amount under the mortgage loan. If the value of the property is lower than the amount of the mortgage loan, we will suffer a loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Risks related to regulatory and legal requirements We incur significant costs related to governmental regulation. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, examination and licensing by federal, state and local governmental authorities and is subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on a substantial portion of our operations. Our lending and servicing activities are subject to numerous federal laws and regulations, including the Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z (including the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, or HOEPA), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the privacy requirements of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, or FACT Act. We also are required to comply with a variety of state and local consumer protection laws and are subject to the rules and regulations of, and examination by, state regulatory authorities with respect to originating, processing, underwriting, purchasing, selling, securitizing and servicing mortgage loans. These requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are amended. All of these laws and regulations are subject to interpretation and enforcement by states attorneys general and other regulatory authorities. Given the consumer-oriented nature of our business, various regulatory authorities have in the past examined, and are expected to continue to examine and monitor, our industry. Also, to resolve issues raised in examinations or other governmental actions, we may be required to take various corrective actions, including changing certain business practices, making refunds or taking other actions that would be financially or competitively detrimental to us. These statutes and regulations, among other things, impose licensing obligations upon us and our affiliates, establish eligibility criteria for mortgage loans, prohibit discrimination, provide for inspections and appraisals of properties securing mortgage loans, require credit reports on loan applicants, regulate assessment, collection, foreclosure and claims handling, investment of and interest payments on escrow balances and payment features, mandate certain disclosures and notices to borrowers and, in some cases, fix maximum interest rates, finance charges, fees and mortgage loan amounts. We expect to continue to incur significant costs to comply with governmental regulations. The nationwide scope of our mortgage loan production and servicing activities exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local levels. Because we produce and service loans nationwide, we must be licensed in all relevant jurisdictions and comply with the respective laws and regulations of each, as well as with judicial and administrative decisions. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations and judicial and administrative decisions that affect our business has increased in recent years. In addition individual cities and counties have begun to enact such laws. The laws and regulations of each applicable jurisdiction are complex, different and, in many cases, are inconsistent or in direct conflict with each other. Moreover, changes in such laws and regulations are being made constantly. Further, federal and state authorities have initiated investigations of companies in our business. Finally, certain legislative actions and judicial decisions can give rise to the initiation of lawsuits against us for activities we conducted in the past. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult for us to identify these developments comprehensively, to interpret changes accurately, to program our technology systems properly to reflect the changes and to train our personnel effectively with respect to these laws and regulations. These difficulties potentially increase our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations which could reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can lead to: · civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; · loss of state licenses or other approval status required for continued lending or servicing operations; · legal defenses causing delay or otherwise adversely affecting the servicer’s ability to enforce loans or giving the borrower the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; · refunds to borrowers; · demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; · litigation, including class action lawsuits; · administrative enforcement actions and fines; · loss of the ability to obtain ratings on our securitizations by rating agencies; or · the inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to us are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently and may not yet have been interpreted or may be interpreted infrequently. As a result of infrequent or sparse interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions, or private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Provisions that by their terms, or as interpreted, apply to lenders or servicers of sub-prime, non-conforming mortgage loans may be construed more favorably to our borrowers and customers than to us. Furthermore, provisions of our loan agreements could be construed as unenforceable by a court. As a lender making sub-prime, non-conforming mortgage loans, we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to regulatory enforcement actions and private causes of action from time to time with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our failure to obtain and maintain licenses in the jurisdictions in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and business. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and we are subject to licensing requirements in the various states where we do business. Loan production, funding, acquisition, and servicing activities are subject to the licensing requirements of various states. To the extent we seek to increase REIT qualifying assets and income by, for example, producing and servicing loans at the REIT level, we will be required to obtain certain new licenses and approvals. We currently have some of the required licenses but have not filed applications for these licenses in certain states where we do not meet in-state presence requirements and have not received approval with respect to all of the applications we have filed to date. Until all necessary licenses have been obtained, we can perform our origination, purchasing, funding, and servicing activities only through the entities that are licensed to conduct such activities. In addition, some states in which we operate may impose regulatory requirements for financial disclosure about our officers and directors and parties holding certain percentages of our outstanding shares of stock. If any officer, director or person holding the relevant threshold percentage of our outstanding shares of stock fails to meet or refuses to comply with a state’s applicable regulatory requirements for mortgage lending, we could lose our authority to conduct business in that state. The loss of our authority to conduct business in a state, for this or any other reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all necessary licenses and approvals in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain and maintain these licenses and approvals would limit, delay and disrupt (1) our ability to increase REIT qualifying assets and income and (2) our operations in certain geographical regions, and perhaps nationwide, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. New legislation, rules or regulations may restrict our ability to make loans, negatively affecting our revenues. Several federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations have been adopted in recent years, or are under consideration, that are intended to eliminate lending practices labeled as “predatory” or even to restrict commonly accepted lending activities. Many of these laws, rules and regulations impose certain restrictions on loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, or APR, exceed specified thresholds or restrict or prohibit prepayment charges on loans. Some of these restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten or originated. In addition, an increasing number of these laws, rules, and regulations seek to impose liability for violations on purchasers of loans, regardless of whether a purchaser knew of or participated in the violation. Generally, we avoid making or acquiring loans that exceed those thresholds because of the costs and risks associated with such loans and the market valuations and perceptions of such loans. Wide-ranging federal legislation addressing all aspects of the mortgage business and providing national standards with respect to certain mortgage products and activities has also been proposed. Further legislation addressing mortgage lending may also be enacted by one or more states. Also, from time to time, members of Congress and government officials have advocated the elimination of the mortgage interest deduction for federal income tax purposes, or its reduction based on borrower income, type of loan or principal amount. Passage of such laws or regulations by Congress or in additional jurisdictions could reduce our loan production volume. Additionally, this type of legislation and any new legislation may cause us to withdraw from some jurisdictions or could otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, because of reputational and financial risks, many whole loan purchasers will not buy, and rating agencies may refuse to rate, any securitization containing any loan labeled as a “high cost” loan under any local, state or federal law or regulation. Therefore, these laws and regulations can severely constrict the secondary market and limit the acceptable standards of mortgage loan production activities. Changes in these laws and regulations could effectively preclude us from originating or purchasing mortgage loans that are governed by those rules and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to securitize or sell mortgage loans and, accordingly, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. If warehouse and repurchase providers of financing and securitization underwriters face exposure stemming from legal violations committed by the companies to whom they provide financing services, this could increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect the market for whole loans and securitizations. Warehouse and repurchase providers of financing and securitization underwriters may face liability exposure for fraud on consumers committed by a lender to whom they provided financing and underwriting services. If courts or regulators adopt this theory, warehouse and repurchase providers of financing and securitization underwriters may face increased litigation as they are named as defendants in lawsuits and regulatory actions against the mortgage companies with which they do business. Some warehouse and repurchase providers of financing and securitization underwriters may exit the business, charge more for warehouse or repurchase financing or underwriting securitizations, or reduce the prices they pay for whole loans in order to build in the costs of this potential litigation. This could, in turn, have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We are subject to various legal actions, which if decided adversely, could have a material adverse effect on us. Because the sub-prime, non-conforming mortgage lending and servicing business, by its nature, involves the collection of numerous accounts, the validity of liens and compliance with local, state and federal lending laws, mortgage lenders, and servicers, including us, are subject to numerous claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of business. These legal actions include lawsuits brought as class actions that allege violations of various federal, state and local consumer protection laws. An adverse judgment in one or more legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, in recent years, both state and federal regulators and enforcement agencies have subjected the practices of sub-prime, non-conforming mortgage lenders to particularly intense regulatory scrutiny, which has resulted in a number of well-publicized governmental and other investigations of other mortgage lenders in our industry. Any such investigation of us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. If many of our borrowers become eligible to defer mortgage loan payments under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003 or similar state laws, our cash flows and interest income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which re-enacted in 2003 the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. This act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. In addition, states such as California have also enacted laws permitting service members to defer loan payments while on active duty in specified overseas locations. In times of significant and sustained mobilization by the U.S. Armed Forces, such as at the present time, the number of our borrowers who are protected by this act is likely to increase, thereby reducing our cash flow and the interest payments collected from those borrowers, and in the event of default, delaying or preventing us from exercising the remedies for default that otherwise would be available to us. The conduct of the independent brokers through whom we produce our wholesale loans could subject us to fines or other penalties. The mortgage brokers through whom we produce wholesale loans have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, federal and state agencies increasingly have sought to impose such liability. In the past, for example, the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender; the FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. The United States Department of Justice in the past has sought to hold mortgage lenders responsible for the pricing practices of mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender is directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. We may be subject to claims for fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage brokers. Further, we have in the past made refunds to our borrowers because of the conduct of mortgage brokers and it is possible that we may in the future be subject to additional payments, fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of the brokers with whom we do business. Federal and state laws and regulations regarding telemarketing and outbound fax marketing may limit our ability to market our products and services and may increase our costs and potentially subject us to additional legal liability. Our marketing operations, including the activities of brokers who originate loans for us, may be restricted by the development of various federal and state restrictions on out-bound telemarketing and “do not call” requirements that prohibit certain unsolicited marketing telephone calls to consumers. Also, restrictions on outbound fax marketing, or “do not fax” rules, at the state or federal level may restrict our ability to broadcast facsimile transmissions to inform mortgage brokers of changes in our rates and products. The requirements of these statutes may increase our costs and our legal risks as well as have a negative effect on our revenues and net income. Compliance with proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We believe that these rules and regulations will make it more costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of management and our board of directors, particularly potential members of our audit committee. We are subject to significant legal and reputational risks and expenses under federal and state laws concerning privacy, use, and security of customer information. The scope of business activity affected by “privacy” concerns is likely to expand and will affect our business. The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and FTC Safeguards Rule and state privacy laws have imposed significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use, and security of financial and other information provided by applicants and borrowers. Also, several other federal, state and local privacy rules have recently been adopted that require us to protect the confidentiality, security and integrity of the customer information we use and hold, including with respect to identity theft, unauthorized access or use of customer information and customer notifications concerning such incidents. In view of the public concern with privacy, it is possible that additional rules that restrict or increase the cost of our activities or those of our vendors may be adopted and could restrict the marketing of our products and services to new customers. In the FACT Act, Congress amended the FCRA and included a number of new provisions, including those concerning the handling of consumer credit information, identity theft, notices to customers concerning qualification for best available prices on financial products, and credit report practices. A number of rules have been adopted and others will likely be adopted in the future to implement the FACT Act, all of which may impact our business and may increase our costs and subject us to additional potential legal liability. Our failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would harm our results of operations. We may invest in securities of other REITs or similar entities. We could become regulated as an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which would substantially reduce our ability to use leverage and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Securities and Exchange Commission has expressed the position that, in order to qualify as a company “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgage loans and other liens on and interests in real estate,” for purposes of exemption from such act, a company must invest at least 55% of its assets in “qualifying real estate assets” and at least 80% of its assets in a combination of “qualifying real estate assets” and real estate-related assets. As a result, our ability to invest in assets that would otherwise meet our investment strategies could be limited by the asset mix we must maintain in order to qualify for exemption from regulation as an investment company. Furthermore, because we conduct most of our business through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we must ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries qualifies. Risks related to our qualification as a REIT under federal income tax rules Making the required cash distributions to remain qualified as a REIT may impact our liquidity. To remain qualified as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute annually to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain). We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the minimum 90% distribution requirement. Differences in timing between taxable income and cash available for distribution could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to meet the minimum 90% distribution requirement (and therefore to maintain our REIT status). In addition, our inability to retain earnings (resulting from the minimum 90% distribution requirement) generally requires us to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. These sources of funds, if available at all, may not be available to meet our distribution and tax obligations. Furthermore, to the extent that we do not comply with covenants contained in our financing agreements or are otherwise found to be in default under the terms of such agreements, we could be restricted from paying dividends or from engaging in other transactions that are necessary for us to maintain our REIT status. See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financing Facilities.” We may also be required to rely upon additional debt or equity in order to grow our business by taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue operations. We may be unable to comply with the requirements applicable to REITs or compliance with such requirements could adversely affect our financial condition. The requirements to qualify as a REIT under federal tax laws are highly technical and complex, and our management has limited experience operating a REIT. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. The determination of whether we qualify as a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that may not be totally within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our gross income must come from mortgage loan interest and other real estate sources and 95% of our gross income must come from real estate sources and certain other sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws, mainly interest and dividends. If, for any taxable year, the dividends we received from Saxon Capital Holdings, our taxable REIT subsidiary, when added to our other items of non-real estate related income, represented more than 25% of our total gross income for the year, we could be denied REIT status. At the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of our assets must be qualifying real estate assets, government securities and cash and cash items. We also are subject to various limitations on our ownership of securities, including a limitation that the value of our investment in our taxable REIT subsidiaries cannot exceed 20% of our total assets. The sole taxable REIT subsidiary in which we directly own stock or securities is Saxon Capital Holdings. As of December 31, 2005, the stock and securities of Saxon Capital Holdings held by us represented less than 20% of the value of our total assets. We may not always be able to comply with the 20% limitation and the 75% asset test so as to maintain REIT status. Also, a failure to satisfy the minimum 90% distribution requirement (as described in the preceding risk factor) could cause us to be denied REIT status. Certain factors might preclude us from complying with this requirement. Differences in timing may exist between our realization of taxable income and our receipt of the corresponding cash available for distribution. Such differences in timing could lead to the loss of our REIT status if we are unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing in order to generate the cash needed to make the required distributions on a current basis. In addition, certain financing agreements that we have entered into or will enter into in the future may contain restrictions that, under certain circumstances, might prevent us from taking actions that would be necessary in order to meet the distribution requirement. When purchasing mortgage-backed securities and government securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether and to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income that qualifies under the REIT gross income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may harm our ability to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal and state income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification is lost. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in significant corporate-level tax that would significantly impact our financial position. Because we would have paid the dividends in each year needed to meet the minimum 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we might have insufficient cash on hand to pay the resulting corporate-level tax and to meet our other obligations. Distributions we make to most domestic non-corporate shareholders are generally not eligible for taxation at capital gains rates, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Distributions made to most domestic non-corporate shareholders by a C corporation are generally eligible to be taxed at rates applicable to net capital gains, currently subject to a maximum rate of 15%, rather than at rates applicable to ordinary income, currently subject to a maximum rate of 35%. The 15% rate, however, generally does not apply to distributions made to most domestic non-corporate shareholders by a REIT on its stock, except for distributions made with respect to dividends received by the REIT from its taxable REIT subsidiary and in other limited circumstances. As a result, our dividends paid to most domestic non-corporate shareholders are generally taxable to those holders at ordinary income rates. Although the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its shareholders generally are subject to less total federal income taxation than earnings of a non-REIT C corporation that are distributed to its shareholders net of corporate level income tax, domestic non-corporate investors may view the stock of C corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT than would otherwise be the case, because dividends from C corporations generally are taxed at a lower rate to shareholders while dividends paid from REITs generally are taxed at the same rate as the shareholder’s other ordinary income. If we make distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, those distributions may reduce your adjusted basis in our common stock, and to the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you, including constructive distributions, generally are subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock, which will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. To the extent the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this excess amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. We strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the effects of our distributions on your individual tax situation. Recognition of excess inclusion income by us could have adverse tax consequences to us or our shareholders. The estimated amount of excess inclusion income for our aggregate 2005 dividends is 62%. This percentage is applied equally to each of our regular quarterly and special dividend distributions. We may continue to recognize excess inclusion income in the future and our shareholders may be required to treat a portion of the distributions they receive as excess inclusion income. Excess inclusion income may not be offset with net operating losses, represents unrelated business taxable income in the hands of an otherwise tax-exempt shareholder, and is subject to withholding tax, without regard to otherwise applicable exemptions or rate reductions, to the extent such income is allocable to a shareholder who is not a U.S. person. Generally, excess inclusion income is the income allocable to a REMIC residual interest in excess of the income that would have been allocable to such interest if it were a bond having a yield to maturity equal to 120% of the long-term applicable federal rate, which is a rate based on the weighted average yields of treasury securities and is published monthly by the IRS for use in various tax calculations. We may continue to recognize excess inclusion income attributable to the equity interests we retain in any REMIC securitization transactions in the future. If a REIT holds 100% of the sole class of equity interest in a non-REMIC multi-class mortgage-backed securities offering that qualifies as a borrowing for federal income tax purposes, the equity interest retained by the REIT, under regulations that have not yet been issued, will be subject to rules similar to those applicable to a REMIC residual interest. Thus, because we intend to undertake non-REMIC multi-class mortgage backed securities transactions, we may continue to recognize excess inclusion income in the future. If we recognize excess inclusion income, we may, under regulations that have not yet been issued, have to continue to allocate a portion of the excess inclusion income to the distributions we distribute to our shareholders to the extent our REIT taxable income (taking into account the dividends paid deduction) is less than the sum of our excess inclusions for the taxable year. If a portion of the distributions we distribute to you are characterized as excess inclusion income, then you will be taxed with respect to that excess inclusion income in the same manner that you would be taxed if you held a REMIC residual interest directly. Generally, to maintain our REIT status, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gains) in each year. To the extent the sum of our excess inclusion income is less than 10% of our total taxable income, we may elect to pay tax on such excess inclusion income rather than treating a portion of our distributions as comprising excess inclusion income. Because taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to tax at the regular corporate rates, we may not be able to fully realize the tax benefits we anticipate as a result of being a REIT. A taxable REIT subsidiary must pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. As a REIT, we conduct many of our historic business activities through our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries pay corporate income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us. Such income, however, is not required to be distributed. The primary benefit that we derive as a result of electing REIT status is the ability to avoid corporate income tax on our earnings by distributing such earnings to our shareholders. Certain business activities, such as servicing loans owned by third parties, must, however, be conducted through a taxable REIT subsidiary if we are to maintain our compliance with requirements for qualification as a REIT. Consequently, our ability to achieve the primary benefit of being a REIT—the avoidance of corporate income tax on our earnings—is limited to the extent we must conduct our business activities through taxable REIT subsidiaries. We may be subject to a penalty tax if interest on indebtedness owed to us by our taxable REIT subsidiaries accrues at a rate in excess of a commercially reasonable rate or if transactions between us and our taxable REIT subsidiaries are entered into on other than arm’s-length terms. If interest accrues on an indebtedness owed by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT, the REIT is subject to tax at a rate of 100% on the excess of (1) interest payments made by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT over (2) the amount of interest that would have been payable had interest accrued on the indebtedness at a commercially reasonable rate. A tax at a rate of 100% is also imposed on any transaction between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT to the extent the transaction gives rise to deductions to the taxable REIT subsidiary that are in excess of the deductions that would have been allowable had the transaction been entered into on arm’s-length terms. We scrutinize all of our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries to ensure that we do not become subject to these taxes. We may not be able, however, to avoid application of these taxes. Risks of Ownership of Our Common Stock We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions to our shareholders in the future. We intend to make quarterly distributions to our shareholders in amounts sufficient to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gains) each year, subject to certain adjustments. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and our ability to make distributions might be impaired by the risk factors described in this report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions to our shareholders in the future. Our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may affect the price of our common stock relative to the stock price of other REITs. We hold a significant portion of our assets, and conduct a substantial portion of our business, through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are corporations subject to corporate-level tax. This REIT/taxable REIT subsidiary structure may cause market valuations of our common stock to differ from market valuations of stock of other publicly-traded REITs that may not use taxable REIT subsidiaries as extensively as we plan to do as a REIT. Shares of our common stock available for future sale could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Also, a substantial number of shares of our common stock will, pursuant to employee benefit plans, be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time, and these shares of common stock will be available for sale in the public markets from time to time. Moreover, additional shares of our common stock issued in the future may be available for sale in the public markets. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: · market reaction to our being a REIT; · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions; · changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us, if any, or the real estate industry; · increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · changes in tax laws affecting REITs; · adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by institutional shareholders; · speculation in the press or investment community; and · general market and economic conditions. Our earnings and cash distributions could adversely affect our stock price. It is generally believed that the market value of the equity securities of a REIT is primarily based upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential for its core portfolio, the value of its real estate portfolio and its prospects for accretive acquisitions and development. The combination of these factors creates a market perception of a REIT’s current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, or refinancings. This market perception is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. For that reason, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves, or other purposes rather than distributing such cash flow to shareholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our stock price. One of the factors that will influence the price of our common stock will be the dividend yield on our common stock (as a percentage of the price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates. Thus, an increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield, which would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Limits on ownership of our common stock could have adverse consequences to you and could limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal tax laws to include certain entities). Primarily to facilitate maintenance of our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, our charter prohibits ownership, directly or by the attribution provisions of the federal tax laws, by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the aggregate number or aggregate value of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, may waive or modify the ownership limit under certain circumstances. Any shares of our stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary. The person who acquired such excess shares of our stock will not be entitled to any distributions on such stock or to vote such excess shares and will receive, in exchange for such excess shares, a price equal to the lesser of (1) the price per share such person paid for the shares (or, if the shares were acquired through a gift, devise or other transaction in which no value was given, a price per share equal to the market price for the excess shares on the date such person acquired the shares) or (2) the cash proceeds from the sale of such excess shares by the trustee. Any additional proceeds from the sale of the excess shares will be paid to the charitable beneficiary. A transfer of our common stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, the transferee would be denied any of the economic benefits of owning our common stock in excess of the ownership limit. The ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with a change in control. Maryland law and our governing documents may make third party acquisitions of our stock or changes in control more difficult. Our charter and bylaws, and Maryland corporate law, contain a number of provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: · Ownership Limit. The 9.8% ownership limit described under “Limits on ownership of our common stock could have adverse consequences to you and could limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock” above may have the effect of precluding a change in control of us by a third party without the consent of the our board of directors, even if such change in control would be in the interest of the our shareholders (and even if such change in control would not reasonably jeopardize our REIT status). · Removal of board of directors. Our charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of shareholders holding at least two-thirds of the shares then outstanding and entitled to be cast for the election of directors. A vacancy on the board resulting from the removal of a director by the shareholders may be filled by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors and only until the next annual meeting of shareholders. · Preferred stock; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock. Our charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes which we have the authority to issue is 101,000,000 shares of capital stock, initially consisting of 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. The board of directors is authorized, without a vote of shareholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of stock to be issued. The issuance of preferred stock or other stock having special preferences or rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even if a change in control would be in the interest of our shareholders. Because the board of directors will have the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a shareholder vote, the board of directors may afford the holders of any such class or series preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of common stock. · Duties of directors with respect to unsolicited takeovers. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (1) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (2) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, any shareholders rights plan, (3) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, or (4) act or fail to act solely because of the effect the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the shareholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law the act of the directors of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. · Maryland Business Combination Act. Maryland corporate law, establishes special requirements for “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and “interested shareholders” or any affiliate of an interested shareholder unless certain exemptions are applicable. An interested shareholder is any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our then-outstanding voting stock. Among other things, the law prohibits for a period of five years a merger and other similar transactions between us and an interested shareholder unless the board of directors approved the transaction before the party becoming an interested shareholder. The five-year period runs from the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. The law also requires a supermajority shareholder vote for such transactions after the end of the five-year period. This means that the transaction must be approved by at least: · 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares; and · two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares other than voting shares held by the interested shareholder or an affiliate of the interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected. The business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from this statute. However, our board of directors may repeal or modify this resolution in the future, in which case the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. · Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland corporate law provides that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of the other shareholders. Two-thirds of the shares eligible to vote must vote for granting the “control shares” voting rights. Control shares are shares of stock that, taken together with all other shares of stock the acquirer previously acquired, would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: · one-tenth or more but less than one-third of all voting power; · one-third or more but less than a majority of all voting power; or · a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares do not include shares of stock the acquiring person is entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. If a person who has made (or proposes to make) a control share acquisition satisfies certain conditions (including agreeing to pay expenses), he may compel our board of directors to call a special meeting of shareholders to consider the voting rights of the shares. If such a person makes no request for a meeting, we have the option to present the question at any shareholders’ meeting. If voting rights are not approved at a meeting of shareholders, then, subject to certain conditions and limitations, we may redeem any or all of the control shares (except those for which voting rights have previously been approved) for fair value. We will determine the fair value of the shares, without regard to voting rights, as of the date of either: · the last control share acquisition; or · the meeting where shareholders considered and did not approve voting rights of the control shares. If voting rights for control shares are approved at a shareholders’ meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other shareholders may obtain rights as objecting shareholders and, thereunder, exercise appraisal rights. This means that you would be able to force us to redeem your stock for fair value. Under Maryland corporate law, the fair value may not be less than the highest price per share paid in the control share acquisition. Furthermore, certain limitations otherwise applicable to the exercise of dissenters’ rights would not apply in the context of a control share acquisition. The control share acquisition statute would not apply to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if we were a party to the transaction. The control share acquisition statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting acquisitions of our shares from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. However, our board of directors may amend our bylaws in the future to repeal or modify this exemption, in which case any of our control shares acquired in a control share acquisition will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. · Advance notice of director nominations and new business. Our bylaws impose certain advance notice requirements that must be met for nominations of persons for election to the board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered by shareholders. The advance notice provisions contained in our bylaws generally require nominations and new business proposals by shareholders to be delivered to our secretary not later than the close of business on the 60th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 90th day before the date on which we mailed our proxy materials for the prior year’s annual meeting of shareholders. · Meetings of shareholders; call of special meetings; shareholder action in lieu of meeting by unanimous consent. Our bylaws provide that annual meetings of shareholders must be held on a date and at the time set by the board of directors during the month of June each year (commencing in June 2005). Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the board of directors or on the written request of shareholders entitled to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the shareholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareholders or by unanimous written consent of all shareholders entitled to vote on the action. · Merger, consolidation, share exchange, and transfer of our assets. Pursuant to provisions contained in our charter, subject to the terms of any class or series of capital stock at the time outstanding, we may merge with or into another entity, may consolidate with one or more other entities, may participate in a share exchange or may transfer our assets within the meaning of Maryland corporate law if approved (1) by a majority of the entire board of directors and (2) by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger with or into a trust organized to change our form of organization from a corporation to a trust will require the approval of our shareholders by the affirmative vote only of a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Under Maryland corporate law, certain mergers may be accomplished without a vote of shareholders, a share exchange must be approved by a Maryland successor only by its board of directors and as set forth in its charter, and our voluntary dissolution also would require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. · Amendments to our charter and bylaws. The provision contained in our charter relating to restrictions on transferability of our common stock may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by shareholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under Maryland corporate law, our charter and bylaws provide that our board of directors has the exclusive right to amend our bylaws. Amendments to this provision of our bylaws also would require board action and approval by two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Risks Related to our Restatement of our Financial Statements We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of our restatement of our financial statements. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements could expose us to government investigation or legal action. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. Failures in our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could lead to material errors in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Such controls are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute assurance that we are providing reliable financial reports. If such controls fail to operate effectively, this may result in material errors in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting may require remediation, which could be costly. Failure to remediate such deficiencies or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to government investigation or legal action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 