ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business If commodity prices decline significantly, our cash flow from operations will decline. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow substantially depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The natural gas and oil markets are very volatile, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices will have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the level of the domestic and foreign supply and demand; • the price and level of foreign imports; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions and fluctuating and seasonal demand; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the cost, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, the prices of natural gas and oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas index price ranged from a high of $6.10 per MMBtu to a low of $1.83 per MMBtu, and West Texas Intermediate oil prices ranged from a high of $81.04 per Bbl to a low of $33.98 per Bbl. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by the continued financial crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system. The consequences of an economic recession and the current credit crisis include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. This has resulted in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas, and may result in a reduction in drilling activity in our service 26 Table of Contents areas or in wells currently connected to APL’s pipeline system being shut in by their operators until prices improve. Any of these events may adversely affect our revenues and ability to fund capital expenditures and, in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to fund our operations and pay debt service. Continuing instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, has increased the cost of capital while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. This may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund our operations. We rely on our cash flow from operations and our credit facilities to execute our growth strategy and to meet our financial commitments and other short-term liquidity needs. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact our access to liquidity needed for our business and impact our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until we can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs. Such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing our operations to lower expenses, and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. The current economic situation could have an adverse impact on our producers, key suppliers or other customers, or on our lenders, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Market conditions could also impact ATN’s and APL’s derivative instruments. If a counterparty is unable to perform its obligations and the derivative instrument is terminated, our cash flow could be impacted. The uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have further impacts on APL’s, and consequently AHD’s, business and financial condition that AHD and APL currently cannot predict or anticipate. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would reduce our cash flow from operations and income. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Based on our December 31, 2009 reserve report, our average annual decline rate for proved developed producing reserves is approximately 7.8% during the first five years, approximately 5.5% in the next five years and less than 5.7% thereafter. Because our total estimated proved reserves include proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2009, production will decline at this rate even if those proved undeveloped reserves are developed, and the wells produce as expected. This rate of decline will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Thus, our future natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. Our ability to find and acquire additional recoverable reserves to replace current and future production at acceptable costs depends on our generating sufficient cash flow from operations and other sources of capital, principally our sponsored investment partnerships, all of which are subject to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Underground accumulations of natural gas and oil cannot be measured in an exact way. Natural gas and oil reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and oil and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Our independent petroleum engineers prepare estimates of our proved reserves. Over time, our internal engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the 27 Table of Contents benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas and oil attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. Our PV-10 and standardized measure are calculated using natural gas prices that include our physical hedges but not our financial hedges. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas and oil we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on historical prices and costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for natural gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; • supply of and demand for natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of PV-10 and standardized measure, and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our reserves or PV-10 and standardized measure may be revised downward or upward based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can reduce the estimated volumes of our reserves because the economic life of our wells could end sooner. Similarly, a decline in market prices for natural gas or oil may reduce our PV-10 and standardized measure. A decrease in natural gas prices could subject our oil and gas properties to a non-cash impairment loss under generally accepted accounting principles. Generally accepted accounting principles require oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets are reviewed for potential impairments at the lowest levels for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of other groups of assets. We test our oil and gas properties on a field-by-field basis, by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable depletion, depreciation and amortization and abandonment is less than the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows. The expected future cash flows are estimated based on our own economic interests and our plans to continue to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future cash flow from the sale of production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices. We estimate prices based on current contracts in place at the impairment testing date, adjusted for basis differentials and market related information, including 28 Table of Contents published future prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future levels of prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply, and the economic and regulatory climates. Accordingly, further declines in the price of natural gas may cause the carrying value of our oil and gas properties to exceed the expected future cash flows, and a non-cash impairment loss would be required to be recognized in the financial statements for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future cash flows) and the carrying value of the assets. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or cause us to lose money. Pricing for natural gas and oil has been volatile and unpredictable for many years. To limit exposure to changing natural gas and oil prices, ATN and APL use financial and physical hedges for their natural gas, crude oil and NGL production. Physical hedges are not deemed hedges for accounting purposes because they require firm delivery of natural gas and are considered normal sales of natural gas. We generally limit these arrangements to smaller quantities than those projected to be available at any delivery point. ATN, APL and AHD also have exposure to interest rate fluctuations as a result of variable rate debt under their credit facilities. ATN, APL and AHD have entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of this variable rate debt to a fixed rate obligation, thereby reducing their exposure to market rate fluctuations. In addition, we may enter into financial hedges, which may include purchases of regulated NYMEX futures and options contracts and non-regulated over-the-counter futures contracts with qualified counterparties. The futures contracts are commitments to purchase or sell natural gas at future dates and generally cover one-month periods for up to six years in the future. By removing the price volatility from a significant portion of our natural gas, crude oil and NGL production, we have reduced, but not eliminated, the potential effects of changing commodity prices on our cash flow from operations for those periods. Furthermore, while intended to help reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if commodity were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. Under circumstances in which, among other things, production is substantially less than expected, the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts commodity prices, we may be exposed to the risk of financial loss. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices and interest rates. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices and interest rates for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. Due to the accounting treatment for derivative contracts, increases in prices for natural gas and crude oil could result in non-cash balance sheet reductions. The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. Accordingly, our financial statements may reflect volatility due to these derivatives, even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point. Due to the mark-to-market accounting treatment for these contracts, we could recognize incremental hedge liabilities between reporting periods resulting from increases in reference prices for natural gas and crude oil, which could result in our recognizing a non-cash loss in our accumulated other comprehensive income and a consequently non-cash decrease in our shareholders’ equity between reporting periods. Any such decrease could be substantial. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our revenues will decline. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with capital raised through equity and debt offerings, cash flow from operations, bank borrowings and our investment partnerships. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital funds on satisfactory terms, we may be 29 Table of Contents unable to increase or maintain our inventory of properties and reserve base, or be forced to curtail drilling or other activities. As a result, our revenues will decline and our ability to service debt may be diminished. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, including with funds from third-party sources, we will be unable to expand our business operations. The scope and costs of the risks involved in making acquisitions may prove greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies; • significant increases in our indebtedness and working capital requirements; • an inability to integrate successfully or timely the businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • increased demands on existing personnel; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • the failure to realize expected growth or profitability. The scope and cost of these risks may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. Further, our future acquisition costs may be higher than those we have achieved historically. Any of these factors could adversely affect our future growth. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations from any future acquisitions with our operations and in realizing all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. We have an active, on-going program to identify potential acquisitions. The integration of previously independent operations can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining these systems, as well as any operations we may acquire in the future, include, among other things: • operating a significantly larger combined entity; • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • consolidating operational and administrative functions; • integrating internal controls, compliance under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; 30 Table of Contents • a significant increase in its indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with an acquisition and increased capital expenditures and overhead costs incurred to expand our operations could harm our business or future prospects, and result in significant decreases in our gross margin and cash flows. We have limited experience in drilling wells in the Marcellus Shale, less information regarding reserves and decline rates in the Marcellus Shale than in other areas of our Appalachian operations, and wells drilled in the Marcellus Shale will be deeper, more expensive and more susceptible to mechanical problems in drilling and completing than wells in the other areas. We have limited experience in drilling development wells in the Marcellus Shale. As of February 15, 2010, we have drilled 239 wells in the Marcellus Shale, 202 of which have been turned on-line, but those wells have been producing for only a short period of time. Other operators in the Appalachian Basin also have limited experience in drilling wells in the Marcellus Shale. Thus, we have much less information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and the production decline rate in the Marcellus Shale than we have in our other areas of operation. In addition, the wells to be drilled in the Marcellus Shale will be drilled deeper than our other primary areas, which make the Marcellus Shale wells more expensive to drill and complete. The wells will also be more susceptible to mechanical problems associated with the drilling and completion of the wells, such as casing collapse and lost equipment in the wellbore. In addition, the fracturing of the Marcellus Shale will be more extensive and complicated than fracturing the geological formations in our other areas of operation and requires greater volumes of water than conventional gas wells. The management of water and the treatment of produced water from Marcellus Shale wells may be more costly than the management of produced water from other geologic formations. We may pay a limited dividend or no dividend to our shareholders. We may pay a limited dividend or no dividend, to our shareholders. The determination of the amount of dividends on our common stock, if any, will be determined solely by our board of directors, based upon its analysis of factors that it deems relevant. Generally, these factors include our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and investment opportunities. We may issue additional shares of common stock without the approval of our shareholders, which may dilute our common shareholders’ existing ownership interests and could depress the market price of our common stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue 114,000,000 shares of common stock, of which approximately 78,000,000 shares are currently outstanding. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities may have the following effects: • the proportionate ownership of our existing common shareholders’ interest may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share of common stock may be diminished; and • the market price of our common stock may decline. 31 Table of Contents We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of one or more series of preferred stock. Our board of directors has the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price, and materially and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. ATN has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position. ATN currently has a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of February 1, 2010, it had total debt of approximately $768.4 million, consisting of $602.4 million of senior notes and $166.0 million of borrowings under its credit facility. ATN may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Its substantial indebtedness may: • make it difficult for ATN to satisfy its financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the senior notes and its other indebtedness; • limit ATN’s ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • limit ATN’s ability to use cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • require ATN to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. ATN’s ability to service its indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service ATN’s current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing ATN’s indebtedness. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. Covenants in ATN’s debt agreements restrict its business in many ways. The indenture governing ATN’s senior notes and its credit facility contain various covenants that limit its ability and/or its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; 32 Table of Contents • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from its subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of its subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of its assets to, another person. In addition, its credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requires it to maintain specified financial ratios. ATN’s ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond its control, and it may be unable to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under its credit facility and/or the senior notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under its credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under its credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If ATN were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. ATN has pledged a significant portion of its assets as collateral under its credit facility. If the lenders under its credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, ATN may not have sufficient assets to repay its credit facility and its other indebtedness, including the notes. ATN’s borrowings under its credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose it to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, ATN’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and its net income would decrease. Changes in tax laws may impair our ability to obtain capital funds through investment partnerships. Under current federal tax laws, there are tax benefits to investing in investment partnerships such as those we sponsor, including deductions for intangible drilling costs and depletion deductions. However, President Obama’s administration has proposed, among other tax changes, the repeal on January 1, 2011 of certain oil and gas tax benefits, including the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance, the election to expense intangible drilling costs, the passive activity exception for working interests and the marginal production tax credit. These proposals may or may not be adopted. The repeal of these oil and gas tax benefits, if it happens, would result in a substantial decrease in tax benefits associated with an investment in our investment partnerships. Also, President Obama’s administration proposes to raise the top federal income tax rate of 35% to 38.6% beginning with the 2011 taxable year which would increase limited partners’ potential federal income tax liability from their share of the partnership’s net taxable income, if any. These or other changes to federal tax law may make investment in our investment partnerships less attractive and, thus, reduce our ability to obtain funding from this significant source of capital funds. Our drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water. If we are unable to dispose of the water we use or remove from the strata at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. Much of our natural gas extraction activity utilizes a process called hydraulic fracturing, which results in water discharges that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, 33 Table of Contents the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect our production and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other substances associated with the exploration, development and production of gas and oil. Recently proposed severance taxes in Pennsylvania could materially increase our liabilities. In 2009, charges for severance taxes in the states in which we operate, other than Pennsylvania, were approximately $5.8 million. While Pennsylvania has historically not imposed a severance tax, with a focus on its budget deficit and the increasing exploration of the Marcellus Shale, legislation was proposed in 2008 to implement a tax of 5% of the value of natural gas at the wellhead plus $0.047 per Mcf. Though that proposal was not adopted, the lawmakers may propose similar taxes in the future. If adopted, these taxes may materially increase our operating costs in Pennsylvania. We may not be able to continue to raise funds through our investment partnerships at the levels we have recently experienced, which may in turn restrict our ability to maintain our drilling activity at recent levels. We have sponsored limited and general partnerships to raise funds from investors to finance our development drilling activities in Appalachia. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we began development drilling activities for us and our partnership investors in Indiana. Accordingly, the amount of development activities we undertake depends in large part upon our ability to obtain investor subscriptions to invest in these partnerships. We have raised $351.9 million, $438.4 million and $363.3 million in calendar years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the future, we may not be successful in raising funds through these investment partnerships at the same levels we have recently experienced, and we also may not be successful in increasing the amount of funds we raise. Our ability to raise funds through our investment partnerships depends in large part upon the perception of investors of their potential return on their investment and their tax benefits from investing in them, which perception is influenced significantly by our historical track record of generating returns and tax benefits to the investors in our existing partnerships. In the event that our investment partnerships do not achieve satisfactory returns on investment or the anticipated tax benefits, we may have difficulty in maintaining or increasing the level of funds we have recently raised through our partnerships. In this event, we may need to obtain financing for our drilling activities on a less attractive basis than the financing we realized through these partnerships or we may determine to reduce drilling activity. Our fee-based revenues may decline if we are unsuccessful in sponsoring investment partnerships. Our fee-based revenues are based on the number of investment partnerships we sponsor and the number of partnerships and wells we manage or operate. If we are unsuccessful in sponsoring future investment partnerships, our fee-based revenues may decline. Our revenues may decrease if investors in our investment partnerships do not receive a minimum return. We have agreed to subordinate up to 50% of our share of production revenues, net of corresponding production costs, to specified returns to the investor partners in our investment partnerships, typically 10% per year for the first five years of distributions. Thus, our revenues from a particular partnership will decrease if we do not achieve the specified minimum return. We subordinated $3.9 million of our share of the revenues, net of corresponding production costs, from our investment partnerships for the year ended December 31, 2009. We did not subordinate our share of net revenues from March 2005 through December 31, 2008, but did subordinate $0.1 million in 2005 and $0.3 million in 2004. 34 Table of Contents Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, which may hinder our ability to acquire gas and oil properties and companies and to obtain capital, contract for drilling equipment and secure trained personnel. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and other natural gas and oil companies, attracting capital through our investment partnerships, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. We will also compete with the exploration and production divisions of public utility companies for natural gas and oil property acquisitions. Our competitors may be able to pay more for natural gas and oil properties and drilling equipment and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Moreover, our competitors for investment capital may have better track records in their programs, lower costs or better connections in the securities industry segment that markets oil and gas investment partnerships than we do. All of these challenges could make it more difficult for us to execute our growth strategy. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring leasehold acreage or prospective reserves or in raising additional capital. Furthermore, competition arises not only from numerous domestic and foreign sources of natural gas and oil but also from other industries that supply alternative sources of energy. Competition is intense for the acquisition of leases considered favorable for the development of natural gas and oil in commercial quantities. Product availability and price are the principal means of competition in selling natural gas and oil. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do, which may enable them to identify and acquire desirable properties and market their natural gas and oil production more effectively than us. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our natural gas. To the extent these customers reduce the volumes of natural gas they purchase from us, our revenues could decline. In Appalachia, our natural gas is sold under contracts with various purchasers. During the year ended December 31, 2009, natural gas sales to Hess Corporation and Equitable Gas Company accounted for approximately 15% and 11% of our total Appalachian oil and gas revenues, respectively. In Michigan, during year ended December 31, 2009, gas under contracts to a former affiliate of Atlas Gas & Oil, which expire at various dates through 2012, accounted for approximately 42% of our total Michigan oil and gas revenues. To the extent these and other key customers reduce the amount of natural gas they purchase from us, our revenues could temporarily decline in the event we are unable to sell to additional purchasers. Our Appalachia business depends on the gathering and transportation facilities of Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (“Laurel Mountain”). Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the natural gas we produce and could reduce our revenues and cash flows. Laurel Mountain gathers more than 71% of our current Appalachia production and approximately 35% of our total production. The marketability of our natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by Laurel Mountain and other third parties. The amount of natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in circumstances such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance or excessive pressure or physical damage to the gathering or transportation system. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations. Higher natural gas and oil prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Over the past three years, we and other natural gas and oil companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations which we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues. 35 Table of Contents Because we handle natural gas and oil, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operations of our wells and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. See Item 1: Business “—Environmental Matters and Regulation” for a description of these laws and regulations. These include, for example: • the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; • Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste, including produced waters, from our facilities; and • Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. For example, an accidental release from one of our wells could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies may be enacted or adopted and could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover remediation costs under our insurance policies. Many of our leases are in areas that have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells. Our key project areas are located in active drilling areas in the Appalachian Basin. As a result, many of our leases are in areas that have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. This may inhibit our ability to find economically recoverable quantities of natural gas in these areas. Our identified Marcellus Shale drilling location inventories are susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of our drilling activities, which may result in lower cash from operations. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing Marcellus Shale acreage. As of December 31, 2009, we had identified over 5,900 potential drilling locations in the Marcellus Shale. These identified drilling locations 36 Table of Contents represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Of the 5,900 potential Marcellus Shale drilling locations, our independent petroleum engineering consultants have assigned proved reserves to the 226 proved undeveloped locations. Of the remaining Marcellus Shale drilling locations we have identified there may exist greater uncertainty with respect to the success of drilling wells at these drilling locations. Our final determination on whether to drill any of our Marcellus Shale drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous Marcellus Shale drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas and oil from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual Marcellus Shale drilling activities may materially differ from our anticipated drilling activities in that region. Some of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. As of December 31, 2009, leases covering approximately 52,505 of our 555,931 net undeveloped acres, or 9%, are scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2010. An additional 14% and 16% are scheduled to expire in the years 2011 and 2012, respectively. If we are unable to renew these leases or any leases scheduled for expiration beyond December 31, 2010, on favorable terms, we will lose the right to develop the acreage that is covered by an expired lease and our production would decline, which would reduce our cash flows from operations. Drilling for and producing natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • adverse weather conditions; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • title problems; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • formations with abnormal pressures; • injury or loss of life; • environmental accidents such as gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment or oil leaks, including groundwater contamination; 37 Table of Contents • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any one or more of the factors discussed above could reduce or delay our receipt of drilling and production revenues, thereby reducing our earnings, and could reduce revenues in one or more of our investment partnerships, which may make it more difficult to finance our drilling operations through sponsorship of future partnerships. In addition, any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. Although we maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could reduce our results of operations. Properties that we buy may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. One of our growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of natural gas reserves. However, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete, because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. We may be exposed to financial and other liabilities as the managing general partner in investment partnerships. We serve as the managing general partner of 96 investment partnerships and will be the managing general partner of new investment partnerships that we sponsor. As a general partner, we are contingently liable for the obligations of the partnerships to the extent that partnership assets or insurance proceeds are insufficient. We have agreed to indemnify each investor partner in the investment partnerships from any liability that exceeds such partner’s share of the investment partnership’s assets. We are subject to comprehensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could increase the cost and alter the manner or feasibility of us doing business. Our operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. 38 Table of Contents Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, legal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing drilling and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulations regarding conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could inhibit our ability to develop our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs of compliance with these laws and regulations and, consequently, reduce our profitability. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry who can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. The combined company resulting from the Merger may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from the merger, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies and growth opportunities from combining the businesses, as well as the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by each company. In addition, on a combined basis, we expect to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and elimination of redundancies as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale. Management also intends to focus on revenue synergies for the combined entity. However, management must successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. In addition, it must achieve the anticipated savings without adversely affecting current revenues and our investments in future growth. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated cost savings, revenue growth and synergies may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Lawsuits have been filed against ATN, certain officers and members of its board of directors and us challenging the Merger, and any adverse judgment for monetary damages could have a material adverse effect on the operations of the combined company. We, ATN, and certain officers and directors of both companies are named as defendants in a consolidated purported class action lawsuit brought by our unitholders in Delaware Chancery Court generally alleging claims of breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the Merger. The complaint alleges inadequate disclosures in connection with the ATN’s unitholder vote on the Merger. Plaintiffs filed a Verified Consolidated Class Action Complaint on July 1, 2009. The lawsuit originally sought monetary damages or injunctive relief, or both. However, on August 7, 2009, plaintiffs advised the Chancery Court by letter that they were not pursuing their motion for a preliminary injunction, and requested that the preliminary injunction hearing date be removed from the Court’s calendar. Around that time, plaintiffs advised counsel for the defendants that plaintiffs intended to continue to pursue the action for monetary damages after the Merger was completed. The Chancery Court approved the briefing schedule in mid-September and defendants filed a brief in support of their motion to dismiss on October 16, 2009. On December 15, 2009, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint alleging that the defendants breached their purported fiduciary duties to ATN’s public unitholders in connection with the negotiation of the Merger. In particular, the amended complaint alleged that the Merger was not entirely fair to ATN’s public unitholders, and that defendants conducted the Merger process in bad faith. On January 6, 2010, the Chancery Court granted the parties’ Scheduling Stipulation and Order, providing that defendants would have until February 18, 2010, to file a motion to dismiss the amended complaint; that plaintiffs’ answering brief in opposition would be due on or before May 3, 2010; and that defendants’ reply papers would be due on or before June 4, 2010. Defendants filed their opening brief in support of their motion to dismiss on February 18, 2010. Predicting the outcome of this lawsuit is difficult. An adverse judgment for monetary damages could have a material adverse effect on the operations of the combined company. 39 Table of Contents The credit facilities of ATN, APL and AHD restrict their payment of distributions. ATN’s credit facility limits the amount of cash dividends it may pay us to (a) amounts equal to our income tax liability attributable to ATN’s net income at the highest marginal rate and (b) up to $40 million each fiscal year, assuming there has been no default under the credit facility, provided that up to $20 million may be carried over from one fiscal year to the next fiscal year. APL’s credit facility permits it to pay distributions only if, pro forma for such payment, its senior secured leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, is less than or equal to 2.75 to 1.00 and its minimum liquidity, as defined in the credit agreement, is at least $50 million. If APL does not meet these financial thresholds, we will not receive distributions on our APL common units nor will AHD receive distributions with respect to the IDRs and common units held by it. Furthermore, AHD’s credit facility prohibits it from paying any distributions to its unitholders until the credit facility has been terminated, which is scheduled to occur in April 2010. We have risk through our ownership interests in APL and AHD. Because we consolidate our operations with those of APL and AHD, we share in their results of operations. Accordingly, there may be fluctuations in the results reported in our financial statements based on the performance of APL and AHD. We are also subject to the risks associated with their business and operations, including: • changes in general economic conditions; • fluctuations in natural gas and NGL prices; • failure or delays in us and third parties achieving expected production from natural gas projects; • competitive conditions in the midstream industry; • actions taken on non-performance by third parties, including suppliers, contractors, operators, processors, transporters and customers; • changes in the availability and cost of capital; • operating hazards, natural disasters, weather-related delays, casualty losses and other matters beyond our control; • construction costs or capital expenditures exceeding estimated or budgeted amounts; • the effects of existing and future laws and governmental regulations; • the effects of future litigation; and • other factors discussed in APL’s and AHD’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K and as are or may be detailed from time to time in their public announcements and other filings with the SEC. We have guaranteed certain debt of AHD and therefore will be liable for this debt if AHD is unable to meet its obligations. In addition, we hold two promissory notes from AHD, and we may not be paid if AHD defaults. On June 1, 2009, AHD entered into an amendment to its revolving credit facility, dated as of July 26, 2006, with Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the lenders thereunder. In connection with the execution of the amendment, AHD agreed to immediately repay $30 million of the 40 Table of Contents approximately $46 million outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility, such that approximately $16 million remained outstanding. AHD agreed to repay $4 million of the remaining $16 million on each of July 13, 2009, October 13, 2009 and January 13, 2010, with the balance of indebtedness being due on the original maturity date of April 13, 2010. In connection with the execution of this amendment, we agreed to guarantee the remaining debt outstanding under the credit facility up to $17.5 million. Accordingly, if AHD is unable to make such payments, we, as guarantor, will be responsible for such payment. Pursuant to this guaranty, we paid $8 million in respect of payments due on July 13, 2009 and October 13, 2009 under the AHD credit agreement. AHD’s $30 million repayment was funded from the proceeds of (i) a loan from us in the amount of $15 million, with an interest rate of 12% per annum and a maturity date the day following the day AHD pays all outstanding indebtedness due under the credit facility, and (ii) the purchase by APL of $15 million of preferred equity in a newly formed subsidiary of AHD. Moreover, in consideration of our guaranty, AHD issued a guaranty note to us whose principal amount is increased on the first day of each fiscal quarter by an amount equal to 3.75% per annum multiplied by the outstanding principal amount of indebtedness under AHD’s credit facility plus a $1.0 million guaranty fee. The maturity date on this note is the day following the day AHD pays all outstanding indebtedness due under the credit facility. Both promissory notes issued by AHD to us are payable-in-kind until their maturity date. If AHD defaults on either note, we may not receive any of the principal or interest due under such notes. If our share price declines, the common shareholders could lose a significant part of their investment. The market price of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control including: • Changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; • The public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; • Fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly-traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; • Changes in market valuations of similar companies; • Departures of key personnel; • Commencement of or involvement in litigation; • Variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; • Variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions; • Future issuances and sales of our shares; and • Changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the natural gas and oil industry. In recent years the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common shares. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 41 Table of Contents 