ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions could materially hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. We are particularly affected by economic conditions in the state of California. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows: • problem assets and foreclosures may increase, • demand for our products and services may decline, 21 Table of Contents • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease, and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. In view of the geographic concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in both Northern and Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of any of these consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our growth and expansion may strain our ability to manage our operations and our financial resources. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to execute our corporate growth strategy. In addition to seeking deposit and loan and lease growth in our existing markets, we intend to pursue expansion opportunities through strategically placed new branches, by acquiring community banks in identified strategic markets, or by acquiring branch locations that we find attractive. Continued growth, however, may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. We plan to pursue opportunities to expand our business through internally generated growth and acquisitions. This business growth may require continued enhancements to and expansion of our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. The process of consolidating the businesses and implementing the strategic integration of any acquired businesses with our existing business may take a significant amount of time. It may also place additional strain on our resources and could subject us to additional expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate these businesses successfully or in a timely manner. In addition, our existing operating and financial control systems and infrastructure may not be adequate to maintain and effectively monitor future growth. Our continued growth may also increase our need for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining such personnel. The following risks, associated with our growth, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows: • our inability to continue to upgrade or maintain effective operating and financial control systems, • our inability to recruit and hire necessary personnel or to successfully integrate new personnel into our operations, • our inability to integrate successfully the operations of acquired businesses or to manage our growth effectively, and • our inability to respond promptly or adequately to the emergence of unexpected expansion difficulties. We face risks associated with acquisitions relating to difficulties in integrating combined operations, potential disruption of operations and related negative impact on earnings, and incurrence of substantial expenses. Growth through acquisitions represents a component of our business strategy. We expect to acquire banks and branches in strategic markets. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired banks and branches, • the potential disruption of our ongoing business, 22 Table of Contents • the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems, and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our integration of the operations of acquired banks or branches will be successfully accomplished. Our inability to improve the operating performance of acquired banks and branches or to integrate successfully their operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The purchase price of banks or branches that might be attractive acquisition candidates for us may significantly exceed the fair values of their net assets. As a result, material goodwill and other intangible assets would be required to be recorded. In connection with acquisitions, we could incur substantial expenses, including the expenses of integrating the business of the acquired bank or branch with our existing business. We expect that competition for appropriate candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which may be larger or have greater financial and other resources than we have. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable banks or branches on acceptable terms and conditions. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of our senior executive management team of Messer’s Ronald W. Bachli, Randall E. Reynoso and David E. Hooston, who have expertise in community banking and experience in the markets we serve and have targeted for future expansion. We are also dependent upon a number of other key executives who are California natives or are long-time residents and who are integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of any one of our senior executive management team or other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our balance sheet is asset sensitive. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2005 our balance sheet was asset sensitive and, as a result, our net interest margin tends to expand in a rising interest rate environment and decline in a falling interest rate environment. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising 23 Table of Contents interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. Falling interest rate environments may cause additional refinancing of commercial real estate and 1-4 family residence loans, which may depress our loan volumes or cause rates on loans to decline. In addition, an increase in the general level of short-term interest rates on variable rate loans may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations or reduce the amount they wish to borrow. Additionally, as short-term market rates have risen over the past eighteen months we have not proportionally increased interest rates we paid on deposits. Beginning in 2006, we increased rates paid on deposit accounts to retain existing customers and attract new deposit customers. As short-term rates continue to rise, retention of existing deposit customers and the attraction of new deposit customers may require us to continue increasing rates we pay on deposit accounts. Because we deferred increasing rates we paid on deposit accounts during a period of rising short-term market rates, we may need to continue to accelerate the pace of rate increases on our deposit accounts as compared to the pace of future increases in short-term market rates. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The types of loans in our portfolio have a higher degree of risk and a downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business. A downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because most of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 86.9% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. The median sales price of an existing single-family detached home in California increased 15.6% from December 2004 to December 2005, while the number of homes sold decreased 17.6% during the same period. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, especially in California, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. Real estate values could also be negatively affected by, among other things, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. We plan to increase significantly the level of our assets, including our loan portfolio. Our ability to increase our assets depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We intend to seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets and by establishing personal relationships with our customers. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unexpected losses may arise from a wide variety of specific or systemic factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual 24 Table of Contents loan and lease losses, and future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The allowance for loan and lease losses reflects our estimate of the probable losses in our loan and lease portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the loan and lease portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan and lease loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal and state regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and leases and allowance for loan and lease losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan and lease losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems that may result in lost business and we may not be able to obtain substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services which could hurt our business. We conduct our banking operations exclusively in California. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the banking services that we offer in our service areas. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions may have larger lending limits which would allow them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened loan production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and 25 Table of Contents retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan and deposit growth and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole source of gains in the future. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends will continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the bank. Our ability to pay dividends is also subject to the restrictions of the California Corporations Code. From time to time, we may become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or the bank from declaring or paying dividends. Our holding company expenses and obligations with respect to our trust preferred securities and corresponding junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture issued by us may limit or impair our ability to declare or pay dividends. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by certain covenants contained in the indentures pursuant to which we issued the subordinated deferrable interest debentures. On a stand-alone basis, we rely on dividends from the bank as our sole source of liquidity. The ability of the bank to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is subject to the regulatory authority of the board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, and the California Department of Financial Institutions or the DFI. For more information about the restrictions on us and the bank to pay dividends, see “ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Supervision and Regulation—Payment of Dividends and Other Transfer of Funds.” If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal control we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control as defined under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, that require remediation. Under the PCAOB standards, a “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affect a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal controls, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the Nasdaq National Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. 26 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions provide for, among other things, advance notice requirements for proposals that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings, a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent without a meeting, and the authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock by action of the board of directors acting alone, thus without obtaining shareholder approval. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve Board approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the Federal Reserve Board and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Placer Sierra Bancshares and the bank are subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations may hamper our ability to increase assets and earnings, and could result in a decrease in the value of your shares. Our operations and those of the bank are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. We cannot assure you that these proposed laws, rules and regulations or any other laws, rules or regulations will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission about our periodic and current reports within the last 180 days and, accordingly, we do not have any unresolved comments from the staff. 