Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Report. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations. Our and our customers’ businesses are subject to seasonality and this may affect our revenues, carrying costs, and collection of receivables. Our and our customers’ businesses are seasonal, based upon the planting, growing and harvesting cycles, and the inherent seasonality of the industry we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business. During fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, greater than 75% of our net sales occurred during the first and second fiscal quarters of each year because of the condensed nature of the planting and growing seasons. Because interim period operating results reflect the seasonal nature of our business, they are not indicative of results expected for the full fiscal year. In addition, quarterly results can vary significantly from one year to the next due primarily to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchase patterns. We incur substantial expenditures for fixed costs throughout the year and substantial expenditures for inventory in advance of the spring planting season. Seasonality also relates to the limited windows of opportunity that our customers have to complete required tasks at each stage of crop cultivation. Should events such as adverse weather or transportation interruptions occur during these seasonal windows, we would face the possibility of reduced revenue without the opportunity to recover until the following season. In addition, because of the seasonality of agriculture, we face the risk of significant inventory carrying costs should our customers’ activities be curtailed during their normal seasons. The seasonality of our industry can also affect the amount of customer bad debt that may result on our books and can negatively impact our accounts receivable collections. Weather conditions may materially impact the demand for our products and services. Weather conditions have a significant impact on the farm economy and, consequently, on our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand and, in some cases, the supply of products, which in turn may have an impact on our prices. For example, weather patterns such as flood, drought, or frost can cause crop failures that in turn affect the supply of feed and seed and the marketing of grain products, as well as the demand for chemicals, fertilizer, seed, and other agronomic supplies. In recent years, we have experienced unusually severe weather conditions, including hurricanes, ice storms, floods, wind damage, and a summer dearth of water and pasture in some states. Adverse weather conditions can also impact the financial position of agricultural producers who do business with us, including producers to whom we extend credit. This, in turn, may adversely affect the ability of those producers to pay their obligations to us in a timely manner. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations. Our industry is very competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales and profit margins. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, particularly with respect to price and service. Our principal competitors in the distribution of crop production inputs include agricultural cooperatives, international fertilizer producers, major grain companies, independent distributors, and brokers. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, and research and development resources, and/or better name recognition than we do and can better withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, as a result of increased pricing pressures caused by competition, we may experience reductions in the profit margins on sales or may be unable to pass future material price increases on to our customers, each of which would reduce profit margins. 13 Table of Contents Government regulation and agricultural policy may affect the demand for our products and therefore our financial viability. Existing and future government regulations and laws may greatly influence how we operate our business, our business strategy, and ultimately, our financial viability. Existing and future laws may impact the amounts and locations of pesticide and fertilizer applications. The Clean Water Act and the equivalent state and local water pollution control laws are designed to protect water quality. Pesticide and fertilizer applications have been identified as a source of water pollution and are currently regulated and may be more closely regulated in the future. This regulation may lead to decreases in the quantity of pesticides and fertilizer applied to crops. The application of fertilizer can also result in the emissions of nitrogen compounds and particulate matter into the air. Compliance with future requirements to limit these emissions under the Clean Air Act and the equivalent state and local air pollution control laws may affect the quantity and/or timing of fertilizer used by our customers. U.S. governmental policies and regulations may directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the level of inventories, the mix of crops planted, crop prices, and the amounts of and locations where pesticides and fertilizer may be applied. The market for our products could also be affected by challenges brought under the Endangered Species Act and by changes in regulatory policies affecting genetically modified seeds. Our industry is dependent on farm expenditures for crop inputs. Factors that affect the levels of crop input spending could adversely impact our business. We operate in the agricultural inputs distribution industry. Our industry depends on farm expenditures for crop inputs, which in turn is dependent upon planted acreage in the United States. The amount of crop input expenditures and planted acreage can be impacted by the following factors: • grain prices; • crops planted in other parts of the world including Brazil and Argentina; • the types of crops planted in the U.S., which have various levels of input spending requirements; • government subsidies; and • our customer’s net income levels, which can be impacted by the above factors as well as interest rates, labor costs, fuel prices, and crop input costs. Our growth within the agricultural inputs distribution industry is partially dependent upon acquisitions, which could adversely affect our future performance. The growth in net sales and operating income of our business depends in part on our ability to expand through acquisitions and on our ability to assimilate new businesses and locations into our existing operations successfully. Our failure to do this could adversely impact our future financial performance. Please refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Building upon our Distribution Network” for more information. We are subject to expenses, claims, and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. As a producer and distributor of crop production inputs, we must comply with federal, state, and local environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. These regulations govern our operations and our storage, handling, discharge, and disposal of a variety of substances. Our operations are regulated at the federal level under numerous laws, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, and at the state level under analogous state laws and regulations. As a formulator, seller, and distributor of crop production inputs, we are also subject to registration requirements under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and related state statutes, which require us to provide information to regulatory authorities regarding the 14 Table of Contents benefits and risks of the products we sell and distribute, and to update that information. Risk information supplied to governmental authorities by us or others could result in the cancellation of products or in limitations on their use. In addition, these laws govern information contained in product labels and in promotional materials, require that products are manufactured in adherence to manufacturing specifications, and impose reporting and recordkeeping requirements relating to production and sale of certain pesticides. Non-compliance with these environmental, health, and safety laws can result in significant fines, penalties, or restrictions on our ability to sell or transport products. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, we could be held jointly and severally responsible for the removal or remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at facilities that we currently own or operate, at facilities that we owned or operated in the past, at neighboring properties to which such contamination has migrated from our facilities, and at third party waste disposal sites to which we have sent wastes. We could also be held liable for natural resource damages. We may incur substantial costs to comply with these environmental, health, and safety law requirements. We also may incur substantial costs for liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. From time to time claims have been made against us alleging injury arising out of human exposure to these substances or other damage, including property damages. Currently, four such claims are pending in relation to our Platte facility. In addition, we may discover currently unknown environmental problems or conditions. The continued compliance with environmental laws, the discovery of currently unknown environmental problems or conditions, changes in environmental, health, and safety laws, and regulations or other unanticipated events may subject us to material expenditures or liabilities in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business or pay dividends on our common stock. As of February 26, 2006, we had $306.3 million of outstanding indebtedness, consisting of $203.5 million of the 8 1/4% Senior Notes and $102.8 million of the 10 3/4% Senior Discount Notes. There were no obligations then outstanding related to our revolving credit facility. We are a highly leveraged company and this level of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • It may limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements. • It may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business. • We may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. • It may make our financial results more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy. • It will require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as payments of dividends on our common stock. • It may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, the indenture governing the 8 1/4% Senior Notes, the indenture governing the 10 3/4% Senior Discount Notes, and the revolving credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants discussed below that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. 15 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies or pay dividends on our common stock. The revolving credit facility, the indenture governing the 8 1/4% Senior Notes, and the indenture governing the 10 3/4% Senior Discount Notes limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • repurchase or redeem our stock; • make investments; • grant liens; • make capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; • sell assets; and • acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies. In addition, the revolving credit facility requires us to maintain an interest coverage ratio and minimum EBITDA (as defined in our revolving credit facility), if revolving credit availability drops below $40.0 million. Although we have historically always been able to maintain this financial ratio and minimum EBITDA, we may not be able to maintain this ratio and minimum EBITDA in the future. Covenants in the revolving credit facility may also impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures or engage in other favorable business activities. If we default under the revolving credit facility under certain circumstances, the lenders could require immediate payment of the entire principal amount. These circumstances include, among other things, a change of control, default under agreements governing our other indebtedness, material judgments in excess of a specified amount, or breach of representations and warranties. Any default under the revolving credit facility or agreements governing our other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under our other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the lenders under the revolving credit facility require immediate repayment, we will not be able to repay them and also repay our other indebtedness in full. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions contained in the revolving credit facility and other agreements governing our other indebtedness may be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. On May 3, 2006, we launched a tender offer for our 10 3/4% Senior Discount Notes and the 8 1/4% Senior Notes in order to refinance our long-term debt and obtain consents to eliminate most of the restrictive covenants from the indentures. We cannot assure you that the tender offer and consent solicitation will be successful. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments,” for more information regarding the refinancing of our long-term debt. Our profitability depends significantly on rebates from our suppliers. If we are unsuccessful in earning, negotiating, or collecting rebates, it could have an adverse impact on our business. We receive rebates from chemical and seed suppliers based on programs offered to all of their customers. The programs vary based on product type and specific supplier practice. The majority of the rebate programs run on a crop year basis, typically from October 1st to September 30th, although other periods are sometimes utilized. The majority of these rebates are product-specific and are based on our sales of that product in a given crop year. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to earn, negotiate, and collect rebates is critical to the success of our business. Generally, we sell the chemicals and seed we purchase from suppliers at a reduced margin, with the profit from any sales of such products being made primarily from rebates from suppliers. We price our products to our customers based on the amount of rebates we expect to receive at year-end. However, the amount of rebates we earn and the nature of our rebate programs are determined by our suppliers and are directly related to the performance of our business. If our sales in any crop year are lower than expected, either because of poor weather conditions, increased competition, or for any other reason, we may earn fewer rebates, and our gross margins may suffer. Additionally, our suppliers may reduce the amount of rebates offered under their programs, or increase the sales goals or other conditions we must meet to earn rebates to levels that we cannot achieve. Finally, our ability to negotiate individually for additional rebates may cease or become limited, and our efforts to collect cash rebates periodically throughout the year may be unsuccessful. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our margins, net income, or business. For more information, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Vendor Rebate Receivables” and Note 1 in Notes to Financial Statements. Our success depends on a limited number of key employees and we may not be able to adequately replace them if they leave. We believe that the success of our business strategy and our ability to operate profitably depend on the continued employment of our senior management team. The loss of the services of some of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Executive Officers of the Registrant”, immediately following “Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.” UAP Holding Corp. is a holding company and we will rely on our subsidiaries for cash to pay dividends on our common stock. UAP Holding Corp. has no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the stock of United Agri Products, Inc. Because UAP Holding Corp. conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, UAP Holding Corp. depends on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends with respect to the common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in the revolving credit facility and other agreements governing current and future indebtedness of UAP Holding Corp.’s subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of UAP Holding Corp.’s subsidiaries, may limit UAP Holding Corp.’s ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. All of UAP Holding Corp.’s subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation whatsoever to pay any dividends, distributions, or other payments to UAP Holding Corp. Our largest stockholder influences us and its interests may conflict with or differ from our and/or your interests in the future. As of May 10, 2006, Apollo and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 17% of our common stock. In addition, representatives of Apollo currently occupy three of the seven seats on our board of directors. As a result, Apollo has the ability to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers, and the sale of substantially all of our assets. The interests of Apollo and its affiliates, as holders of common stock, could conflict with or differ from your interests. For example, Apollo could influence us to increase the amount of dividends payable with respect to our common stock, or to make acquisitions, or pursue restructurings or other transactions in ways that could increase our leverage or otherwise impair our creditworthiness. In addition, Apollo could pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 17 Table of Contents Further, we anticipate that as Apollo continues to sell shares of common stock and further reduces its beneficial ownership or ceases to be a beneficial owner of our common stock altogether, some or all of the Apollo representatives will no longer serve on our board of directors. While we expect that over time the board and our stockholders will be able to replace or elect new directors to fill any vacancies created by the resignation of those directors affiliated with Apollo, any sudden vacancies could be disruptive to senior management and the remaining board members, which could have an adverse effect on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 18 Table of Contents 