Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. As such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.Risks Related to Our Business Failure to maintain satisfactory quality scores could negatively impact our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations.Quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), to pay bonuses to Medicare Advantage (“MA”) plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced member health benefits which are attractive to members. Plan performance is judged on 11 elements, including quality scores. Plans judged to be low performing for 3 consecutive years risk contract termination. In 2013, our MA plans in Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana and Missouri and the Windsor MA plans we acquired in January 2014 each received at least one quality score, or “Star Rating”, of 2.5 for at least the third consecutive year. If these Star Ratings do not improve, these plans may be terminated by CMS as early as plan year 2015. Because we serve a larger percentage of D-SNP members than our competitors, and our quality scores do not reflect certain socio-economic factors, Star Ratings for certain of our plans may not improve, which may prevent us from receiving a quality bonus for those plans. In addition, plans with a low performance score participating in state Medicare-Medicaid dual-eligible demonstration programs are ineligible for passive enrollment, which is likely to result in lower market share in those programs. In certain state Medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, or pay penalties, or the plan may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. In addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements, these contracts may be subject to termination, or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. We are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance.In addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may result in negative business development outcomes in new markets, our failing to obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions, and/or negative marketing outcomes in markets in which we already compete for membership on bases including quality scores. As a result, lower quality scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations. Medicaid premiums are fixed by contract and do not permit us to increase our premiums during the contract term, therefore, if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could cease to be profitable.Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. Relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the “medical benefits ratio” or “MBR”) can create significant changes in our financial results. Factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include:•the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion, whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected;•an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise;•higher-than-expected utilization of health care services;•periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts;•the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism;•changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; •challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives; and31Table of Contents•new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices.If our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable.Most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, determined by the types of members in our plans. These payments are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to four years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by states and the federal government. The payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarial methods based on historical data. Actual experience, however, could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. If our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators’ actuarial pricing assumptions, and we are unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Several Medicaid programs establish an MLR, requiring health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. If a minimum medical loss ratio is not met, then we could be required to refund premiums back to the state or CMS, as applicable.In addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our Medicaid and Medicare lines of business. For instance, the rates we receive for a Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) member are generally significantly higher than for a non-SSI member who is otherwise similarly situated. As the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.Our membership is concentrated in certain geographic areas in the U.S., and unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in those geographic areas could therefore have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2013, three of our Medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes: Florida, Georgia and Kentucky.Some provider contracts are directly tied to state Medicaid or Medicare fee schedules, which the state or CMS, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. For example, in connection with Florida's Medicaid reform initiative, the Florida Agency for Health Care Administration ("AHCA") has recently implemented a new payment structure for covered inpatient services under Florida Medicaid's fee-for-service program. As of July 1, 2013, AHCA is reimbursing providers for such services based on a diagnosis related group ("DRG") schedule. This change impacts the payments we make to our contracted providers whose contracts with us are tied to Florida Medicaid fee-for-service rates. In addition, we are in the process of transitioning other contracted inpatient service providers in our Florida Medicaid network to this payment methodology. We have experienced similar types of adjustments in other states in which we operate. Unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively impacted.Also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. In situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. In some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. Out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure you that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it.32Table of ContentsDifficulties in successfully executing and integrating acquisitions, expansions and other significant transactions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.As part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. In 2012, we completed two acquisitions, Easy Choice Health Plan, Inc. in California and certain assets of Desert Canyon Community Care in Arizona, and in the first quarter of 2013, we completed our acquisition of UnitedHealth Group Incorporated’s South Carolina Medicaid plan and Aetna, Inc.’s Missouri Medicaid plan. We are still integrating certain aspects of these acquisitions into our operations.In January 2014, we completed our acquisition of Windsor Health Group, Inc. (“Windsor”) from Munich Health North America, Inc, a part of Munich Re. Through its subsidiaries, Windsor serves Medicare beneficiaries with Medicare Advantage, Prescription Drug Plan and Medicare Supplement products. In September 2013, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain assets of Healthfirst Health Plan of New Jersey, Inc., which operates a Medicaid health plan in 12 counties in New Jersey. We expect the acquisition to close during the second quarter of 2014, subject to customary regulatory approvals.Once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. Other potential acquirers may have greater financial resources or different profitability criteria than we have. Depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years.Even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. We may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities.Once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to:•new associates who must become familiar with our operations and corporate culture;•acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated;•existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan;•disparate administrative and information technology systems; and•difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably.Furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity, which may not be successful. These expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease.Our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by:•the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate;•lower quality scores compared to our competitors;•participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors;•our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators;•CMS or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as CMS star ratings (“Star Ratings”);•competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members;•the cost of providing health care services in those areas;•demographics and population density; and•applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus.In any program start-up, acquisition, expansion, or re-bid, the implementation of the contract as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. These include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbency, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, 33Table of Contentsand noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. Our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively impacted by these delays or changes.In addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan’s historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation; and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. As a result of the previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. As a result, continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow.Growth could also place a significant strain on our management and on other resources and we are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or counties where we do not currently operate. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team; attract, train and retain skilled associates; and implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely impact our short-term profitability and liquidity.Furthermore, we may incur unusual or non-recurring expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions.The requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”), may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We believe the Affordable Care Act will continue to bring about significant changes to the American health care system. These measures are intended to expand the number of United States residents covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system. The costs of implementing the Affordable Care Act will be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under Medicare.On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate contained in the Affordable Care Act and modified the Medicaid expansion provisions to make the expansion optional for states. Some states have decided not to participate in the Medicaid expansion, and more states may choose not to participate in the future. Congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the Affordable Care Act, may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or could seek to repeal the law altogether. Given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the Affordable Care Act could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels.Regulations and policies related to the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, the Budget Control Act of 2011, the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2014 as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows by:•restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; •restricting our ability to expand into new markets; •increasing our medical and administrative costs; and •lowering our Medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments. In addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful impact in the health care markets.The Affordable Care Act includes a number of changes that could impact the way MA plans will operate, such as:•Reduced Medicare Premium Rates. In addition to the 2% sequestration cut, 2014 benchmark rates resulted in a decrease of between 2.0 to 4.0% and a further risk coding intensity reduction of 4.91% compared to 2013 rates.34Table of Contents•CMS Star Ratings. Certain provisions in the Affordable Care Act tie MA premiums to the achievement of Star Ratings. From 2012 to 2014, MA plans with an overall Star Rating of three or more stars (out of five) are eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. Beginning in 2015, only those plans that have a four or higher overall Star Rating will be eligible for the quality bonus. Plans that receive quality bonuses may have a competitive advantage in the Medicare market, as they may be able to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. Also, beginning with open enrollment for the 2014 plan year, Part C or Part D Medicare plans with Star Ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are excluded from mention in the CMS “Medicare and You” handbook, denoted as “low performing” plans on the CMS website, and excluded from on-line enrollment through the Medicare Plan Finder website. These actions may adversely impact these plans’ ability to maintain or increase membership. In addition, Part C and Part D Medicare plans with any Star Ratings (Part C or Part D) of less than three stars for three consecutive years may be terminated at CMS’ discretion beginning on January 1, 2015. Our plans in Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana and Missouri and the Windsor MA plans we acquired have had at least one Star Rating of less than three stars for three consecutive years or more. While we are continuing efforts to improve our Star Ratings and other quality measures, there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain or improve our Star Ratings.•Minimum MLRs. Beginning in 2014, the Affordable Care Act requires the establishment of a minimum medical loss ratio (“MLR”) for MA plans, and Part D plans, requiring them to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical benefits. The rules implementing the minimum MLR impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum MLR, including requirements to refund to CMS shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan’s MA contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum MLR. MLR is determined by adding a plan’s total reimbursement for clinical services plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). Under the Affordable Care Act, over a 10 year period beginning in 2010, the “coverage gap” (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications) under Part D has been gradually closing, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay in 2020. While this change ultimately results in increased insurance coverage for beneficiaries, such improved benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. Such actions could impact the cost structure of our Part D programs.The Affordable Care Act will impose certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as an annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment (the "industry fee") on health insurers beginning in 2014. The total industry fee levied on the health insurance industry will be $8 billion in 2014, with increasing annual amounts thereafter and growing to $14.3 billion by 2018. After 2018, the industry fee increases according to an index based on net premium growth. The assessment will be levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and will be allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all U.S health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. The industry fee will not be deductible for income tax purposes, which will significantly increase our effective income tax rate. We currently estimate that we will incur between approximately $125 to $135 million in such fees in 2014, based on our estimated share of total 2013 industry premiums. However, the final fee amount will not be determined until August 2014. We currently expect to be reimbursed by our state customers for the impact of the fee on our Medicaid plans, including its non-deductibility for income tax purposes. However, the timing of revenue recognition for such reimbursement may be delayed and not match the expense recognition of the fee, depending on the timing of contractual agreements. MA and PDP premium rates will not be adjusted to offset the impact of the fee. The NAIC is continuing discussions regarding the statutory accounting for the industry fee, and may provide guidance that is contradictory to GAAP by requiring an accrual of the fee during the year preceding payment, therefore, we are not able to determine the impact on the statutory capital and surplus of our regulated subsidiaries at this time.The health reforms in the Affordable Care Act allow, but do not require, states to expand eligibility for Medicaid programs. However, state budgets continue to be strained due to economic conditions and uncertain levels of federal financing for current populations. As a result, the effects of any potential future expansions are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net impact of the Affordable Care Act will be positive or negative for our Medicaid business.Future changes in health care law present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.Future changes in, or intepretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things:35Table of Contents•imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements;•increasing our administrative and other costs;•requiring us to change our operating structure;•requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities;•imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue;•increasing mandated benefits;•further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries;•restricting our revenue and enrollment growth;•requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and•requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems.Requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, “clean claim” (claims for which no additional information is needed) payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. Changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have an adverse impact our profitability, which could be material.Our Medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. Loss of a material contract, reduced premium rates, or delayed payment of earned premiums may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our concentration of operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions, payment delays, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.We provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving benefits under federal assistance programs, including Medicare Advantage, Medicaid, and Children’s Health Insurance Program (“CHIP”). We provide those health care services under contracts with regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our Medicaid operations in Florida, Georgia and Kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. These customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates.Our Florida Medicaid contracts expire in August 2015, however we currently anticipate that these will be terminated early in connection with the implementation of the Managed Medical Assistance program (the "MMA program”), which replaces the prior Medicaid program. Our Staywell Health Plan will participate in eight out of the state’s 11 regions in the MMA program. We expect that starting in the second quarter of 2014, two to three regions will be launched per month, and all regions should be launched by October 2014. Our Medicaid contracts with other states are generally intended to run for one to three years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. Our current state contracts are set to expire or renew between February 2014 and December 2015. When our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. There is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended. Further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. Our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. If any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed, renewed on less favorable terms, or not renewed on a timely basis, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected.State governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their Medicaid programs due to difficult macroeconomic conditions and increases in the Medicaid eligible population. We anticipate this will require government agencies with which we contract to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. If there is a significant delay in our 36Table of Contentsreceipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.A significant percentage of our Medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in Medicaid managed care plans. States may mandate that certain types of Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in Medicaid managed care through CMS-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by CMS. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our care and service delivery model is designed to optimize our use of our personnel as an alternative to third parties based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success. As a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management and behavioral health services for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. We have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. If a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. Significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. Further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. Ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment.Our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs.We have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. The accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. In some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. There also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. In either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data.We have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. As states increase their reliance on encounter data these difficulties could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs.We may be unable to offset the reductions in premium revenue of our MA and our PDP plans due to sequestration and the effect on our results of operations may be material.Pursuant to the sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011, approximately $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending reductions began in March 2013. A 2% rate reduction to the Medicare program began on April 1, 2013, which decreased our premium revenue for our MA and PDP segments. The Continuing Appropriations Act of 2014 continued these spending reductions and extended sequestration on the Medicare program for an additional two years through 2023. We may be unable to offset this reduction in premium revenue, and the effect on our results of operations may be material.37Table of ContentsWe encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations.We operate in a highly competitive industry. Some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. We operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. In these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We have chosen not to participate in the health insurance exchange products during 2014 and we may not participate in 2015. As a result, individuals who select an exchange product, and subsequently become eligible for a Medicaid plan that we offer, may be less likely to select or be assigned to us.Regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. Regulators may prefer companies that operate in multiple lines of business when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, in which we may not operate.We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. We may not be able to develop innovative products and services, which are attractive to members. We cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability.In addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. We believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve.We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry and other businesses. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could impact our retention of employees and management.Our MA plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. The independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefits products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. Our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels.To the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth, and control medical cost trends, and/or our pricing flexibility, may be adversely affected. Failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. Risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. This model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. Premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms, and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. We reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting 38Table of Contentsadjustments are made to premium revenue. In addition, revisions to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and will continue to reduce, our premium revenue.As a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. Consequently, our estimate of our plans’ risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. These audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required.Government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. Our Florida and Arizona MA plans have been selected by CMS for audits of the 2011 contract year and we anticipate that CMS will conduct audits of other contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. An audit may result in the refund of premiums to CMS. It is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.Recent changes in our senior management, workforce and operations may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market price of our common stock.We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management, workforce and operations. In September and October 2013, we terminated, without cause, the employment of Alec Cunningham, the Chief Executive Officer, Walter Cooper, the Chief Administrative Officer, and Dan Paquin, President National Health Plans. On October 31, 2013, David Gallitano, our Chairman of the Board, was named our Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis. We have retained an executive search firm to identify a new Chief Executive Officer, the process for which may take up to a total of twelve months. In February 2014, Rose Hauser joined us as our Chief Information Officer. In January 2014, Kenneth Burdick joined us as our President, National Health Plans. Michael Polen was recently promoted to a newly created position of Senior Vice President, Operations. Additionally, Blair Todt, former Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer, recently assumed the newly created position of Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy and Development Officer, while Cyndi Baily, former Vice President, Assistant General Counsel, assumed Mr. Todt's former position of Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer. We eliminated approximately 280 positions and aligned complementary functions to reduce cost and optimize performance in October 2013. These changes in our senior management, workforce and operations may be disruptive to our business and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. Any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and the market price of our common stock. Additionally, we may not be able to fully realize the expected cost savings or improved operational efficiency.We derive a significant portion of our Medicare revenue from our PDP operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. The results of our bids could materially reduce our revenue and profits.A significant portion of our PDP membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in CMS-designated regions where our PDP premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans’ bids. In general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding PDP membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. If our future Part D premium bids are not below the CMS benchmarks, we risk losing PDP members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional PDP members auto-assigned to us, which would materially reduce our revenue and profits.Our 2014 Medicare PDP bids were below the benchmarks in 30 of the 33 CMS regions for which we submitted bids, which resulted from the realignment of our benefit designs and cost structure, and we may not be as successful in our bids in future years.We are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, 39Table of Contentswhat services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. Any violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. The following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face:•claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations;•claims relating to sales practices;•claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums;•claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments;•claims relating to claims payments and procedures;•claims relating to provider marketing;•claims by providers for network termination or exclusion;•anti-kickback claims;•medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers’ malpractice or negligence;•allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities;•provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts;•allegations of discrimination;•allegations of breaches of duties;•claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings;•allegations of agent misconduct;•claims related to deceptive trade practices; and•claims relating to audits and contract performance.As we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in:•loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including Medicaid and Medicare;•forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts;•imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates;•reduction or limitation of our membership;•damage to our reputation in various markets;•increased difficulty in marketing our products and services;•inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion;•suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, HMO or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; and•an event of default under our debt agreements.In particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as “fraud and abuse” laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. Many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. Liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent.Some courts have permitted False Claims Act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. Liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions.For example, in October 2008, the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice (the “Civil Division”) informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act. We also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action in state court for Leon County, Florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. With respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the Civil Division, the Civil Division of the United States Attorney’s Office for 40Table of Contentsthe Middle District of Florida, and the Civil Division of the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut. However, other qui tam actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other qui tam actions may be filed against us in the future.We are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and CMS to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. For additional risks associated with these audits, see “Risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows” above.In addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. These have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies’ products. For example, CMS and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market Medicare products. These investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products.We rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations.Premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. A state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. Our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded.In addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. Our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state’s failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. We have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. If the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.If we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions due to our existing credit agreement, our senior notes due 2020 (the “notes”), restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries, or higher statutory capital levels, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Our business strategy has been defined by three primary initiatives, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. We may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities.Our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. Financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible.Our credit agreement and notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. Our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants:•limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our senior credit facilities is variable.Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. If our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects.41Table of ContentsOur credit agreement and notes contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. If we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable.In addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. If our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.Our licensed HMO and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. One or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity.Our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. Our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. Regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. For example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. Any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. In addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably.We may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding. In addition, our credit agreement provides us with up to $300.0 million of borrowing ability thereunder. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries’ financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities, or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the credit agreement. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes and the credit agreement, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives.If we commit a material breach of our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we may be excluded from certain programs, resulting in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations.On April 26, 2011, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (the “Corporate Integrity Agreement”) with the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG-HHS”). The Corporate Integrity Agreement has a term of five years and concludes the previously disclosed matters relating to us under review by OIG-HHS. The Corporate Integrity Agreement requires us to maintain various ethics and compliance programs that are designed to help ensure our ongoing compliance with federal health care program requirements. The terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement include certain organizational structure requirements, internal monitoring requirements, compliance training, screening 42Table of Contentsprocesses for new employees, who we call associates, requirements for reporting to OIG-HHS, and the engagement of an independent review organization to review and prepare written reports regarding, among other things, our reporting practices and bid submissions to federal health care programs.If we fail to comply with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we may be required to pay certain monetary penalties. Furthermore, if we commit a material breach of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, OIG-HHS may exclude us from participating in federal health care programs. Any such exclusion would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses and potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. In connection with some of these pending matters, including the recent criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. We have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be further reimbursed.We currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after January 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after October 2007. We cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims.We are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could impact our investment portfolio.Our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. Market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could impact the value or liquidity of our investment portfolio and adversely impact interest income. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock We are subject to laws, government regulations and agreements that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders.Our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an HMO or insurance company. For purposes of these laws, in most states "control" is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. These laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable.In addition, in our settlement with the Civil Division, we agreed to pay $35.0 million in the event that we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control on or before April 30, 2015, provided the transaction exceeds certain thresholds. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. From time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. Company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. Our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including:•variations in our operating results;•changes in the market's expectations about our future operating results;•changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our Company or the health care industry generally;43Table of Contents•operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable;•news reports relating to trends in our markets;•changes or proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting our business;•acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; •changes in our senior management; and•sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur.We may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. The registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the SEC's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use Form S-3. Additional equity financing will be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants.Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. These sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock.Risks Related to Information Technology If we are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations.Our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. The information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. These systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. These systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. There can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting.There can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses.Additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our information systems, applications and critical business functions. To help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. Our plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our costs to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information could be significant, and any disruptions or security breaches in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or 44Table of Contentsbreaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches.Failure to keep our computer networks, information technology systems, computers and programs and our members’ and customers’ sensitive information secure from attack, damage or unauthorized access, whether as a result of our action or inaction or that of one of our business associates or other vendors, could adversely affect our reputation, membership and revenues and also expose us to mandatory disclosure to the media, contract termination, litigation (including class action litigation), and other enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition.Our measures to prevent security breaches may not be successful. As we expand our business, including through acquisitions and organic growth, increase the amount of information we make available to members and consumers on mobile devices and expand our use of social media, our exposure to these data security and related cybersecurity risks, including the risk of undetected attacks, damage or unauthorized access, increases, and the cost of attempting to protect against these risks also increases.The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”), one part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), modified certain provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions to business associates, mandating new regulations around electronic health records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, and increasing penalties for violations. Civil penalties for HIPAA violations by covered entities are up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. HHS is required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. Investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties became mandatory in February 2011, are statutorily required. In addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. Initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of HHS for further enforcement and, within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations.In addition, the HITECH Act requires us to notify affected individuals, HHS, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach.The HITECH Act also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. While provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under the HITECH Act, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state Medicaid agencies. We are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be.On January 25, 2013, HHS, as required by the HITECH Act, issued the Final Omnibus Rules that provide final modifications to HIPAA rules to implement the HITECH Act. The various requirements of the HITECH Act have different compliance dates, some of which have passed and some of which will occur in the future. We will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under HIPAA as modified by the HITECH Act continue to become effective and more guidance becomes available from HHS and other federal agencies. The evolving privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, associate education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. Given HIPAA’s complexity and the evolving regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the HIPAA requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under the HITECH Act and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements.Our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new ICD-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses.HHS has released rules pursuant to HIPAA which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. HHS also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. By 45Table of ContentsOctober 1, 2014, the federal government will require that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. These new standardized code sets, known as ICD-10, will require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. While use of the ICD-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. However, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. Furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.