Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business If our government contracts are not renewed or are terminated, our business could be substantially impaired. We provide our Medicaid, Medicare, S-CHIP and other services through a limited number of contracts with state, federal or local government agencies. These contracts generally have terms of one to three years and are subject to non-renewal by the applicable agency. All of our government contracts are terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. In addition, our right to add new members may be suspended by a government agency if it finds deficiencies in our provider network or operations or for other reasons. Our contracts with the states are generally subject to cancellation or a potential freeze on enrollment by the state in the event of the unavailability of adequate funding. In some jurisdictions, a cancellation or enrollment freeze may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. Some of our contracts are also subject to termination or are eligible for renewal through annual competitive bids. If we are unable to renew, or to successfully rebid or compete for any of our government contracts, or if any of our contracts are terminated, our business could be substantially impaired. If any of those circumstances were to occur, we would likely pursue one or more alternatives, including seeking to enter into contracts in other geographic markets, seeking to enter into contracts for other services in our existing markets or seeking to acquire other businesses with existing government contracts. If we were unable to do so, we could be forced to cease conducting business. In any such event, our revenues would decrease materially. For example, in August 2006, we were notified by the Indiana Office of Medicaid Policy and Planning that we were not selected for a new contract to provide managed care benefits to Indiana Medicaid recipients beginning in 2007. Our Indiana membership and revenue represent 3.1% and 3.5% of total membership and revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. We may face increased competition as other plans attempt to enter our markets through the contracting process. Because our premiums, which generate most of our revenues, are fixed by contract, we are unable to increase our premiums during the contract term if our corresponding medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates. Most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member. These payments are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to three years, to provide or arrange for the provision of healthcare services as established by state and federal governments. We have less control over costs related to the provision of healthcare services than we do over our selling, general and administrative expense. Historically, our medical benefits expense as a percentage of premium revenue has fluctuated. For example, our medical benefits expense was 80.9% in 2004, 81.2% in 2005, and 81.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006. If our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates, we will be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, and our profits may decline. If we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could cease to be profitable. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of healthcare services. Relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to healthcare services to the premiums we receive, or medical benefits ratio, can create significant changes in our financial results. Factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include: · an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; · higher than expected utilization of healthcare services; 17 Back to Table of Contents · periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; · the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; · changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; and · new mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations and/or practices. Because of the relatively high average age of the Medicare population, medical benefits expense for our Medicare plans, including our PDP plans, may be particularly difficult to control. Although we have been able to manage our medical benefits expense through a variety of techniques, including various payment methods to primary care physicians and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, medical management and quality management programs, upgraded information systems, and reinsurance arrangements, we may not be able to continue to manage these expenses effectively in the future. If our medical benefits expense increases, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. For example, a hypothetical 1% increase in our medical benefits ratio would have reduced our earnings before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 by $18.6 million and $36.2 million, respectively. We maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, but we cannot assure you that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. Reductions in funding for government healthcare programs could substantially reduce our profitability. All of the healthcare services we offer are through government-sponsored programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare. As a result, our profitability is dependent, in large part, on continued funding for government healthcare programs at or above current levels. For example, the premium rates paid by each state to health plans like ours differ depending on a combination of factors such as upper payment limits established by the state and federal governments, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix and member eligibility categories. Future Medicaid premium rate levels may be affected by continued government efforts to contain medical costs or state and federal budgetary constraints. In the recent past, some of the states in which we operate have experienced fiscal challenges leading to significant budget deficits. According to the National Association of State Budget Officers, Medicaid spending consumes more than a fifth of the average state’s budget, representing the largest expenditure in 2005. While healthcare spending increases appear to be more limited than they have been in recent years, states continue to look at Medicaid programs as opportunities for savings and some states may find it difficult to continue paying current rates to Medicaid health plans, or to continue covering all services or groups. Changes in Medicaid funding, for example, may lead to reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicaid, reductions in the amount of reimbursement or elimination of coverage for certain benefits such as pharmacy, behavioral health or other benefits. In some cases, changes in funding could be made retroactive in which case we may be required to return premiums already received or receive reduced future payments. In the recent past, all of the states in which we operate have implemented or considered legislation or regulations that would reduce reimbursement rates, payment levels, benefits covered or the number of persons eligible for Medicaid. New York, for example, has agreed to certain cost containment measures, including a temporary freeze on managed care premiums, as a condition for enhanced federal Medicaid funding. Similarly, recent proposed federal regulations would reduce federal payments to states for Medicaid by $3.8 billion over five years, and the President’s recently released proposed federal budget includes substantial additional cuts in federal spending on Medicaid. Many of these proposed cuts effectively would shift certain costs of the Medicaid program back to the states, which would in turn place increased pressure on states to reduce expenditures, control enrollment or limit benefits. Reductions in Medicaid payments could reduce our profitability if we are unable to reduce our expenses. New federal Medicaid citizenship requirements as well as changes in work participation rules for federal welfare program recipients could mean fewer Medicaid eligibles in the future. In addition, the S-CHIP program must be reauthorized by Congress this year, and we cannot be sure what, if any, changes will be made in the program, or how such changes might affect our businesses. Similarly, reductions in payments under Medicare or the other programs under which we offer health and prescription drug plans could likewise reduce our profitability. Recent changes in Medicare pursuant to the MMA permit premium levels for certain plans to be established through competitive bidding, with Congress retaining the ability to limit increases in premium levels established through bidding from year to year. The federal government has also passed legislation that phases out Medicare Advantage budget neutrality payments through 2011, which impacts premium increases over that timeframe. Congress may consider other reductions to rates or other changes to the Medicare Part D program which could also reduce our revenues. 18 Back to Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulation, and any violation of the laws and regulations applicable to us could reduce our revenues and profitability and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. Our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations and such scrutiny is likely to increase, particularly for companies like ours that offer Medicare Part D plans. We are also subject to state laws regarding insurers and HMOs that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies. Under such laws, certain dividends, distributions and other transactions between an insurance or HMO subsidiary and the holding company or its other subsidiaries require notification to, or the approval of, one or more state insurance or health departments. These laws also require prior regulatory approval for any direct or indirect change of control of an HMO or insurance subsidiary. For purposes of these laws, in most states control is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity although exemptions to this requirement are available in certain circumstances. Violations of any of these laws, rules or regulations or an adverse review, audit or investigation could result in one or more of the following: · forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; · imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key employees; · loss or limitation of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including Medicaid and Medicare; · damage to our reputation in various markets; · increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; · inability to obtain approval for future service or geographic expansion; and · suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, health maintenance organization or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service. Because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws, including the Federal False Claims Act (“FFCA”), which permit state and federal governments to institute suit against us for regulatory violations, particularly relating to billing fraud, kickbacks and other intentional wrongdoing. In some cases, these laws permit the government to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. In addition, private citizens, acting as whistleblowers, can sue as if they were the government under a special provision of the FFCA. Any violations of any of these laws, rules or regulations or any adverse review, audit or investigation could reduce our revenues and profitability and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. If state regulatory agencies require a higher statutory capital level for our existing operations or if we are subject to additional capital requirements as we pursue new business opportunities, we may be required to make additional capital contributions which would negatively impact our cash flows and liquidity. Our operations are conducted through subsidiaries in various states. These subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, as defined by each state. One or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could adversely impact our financial condition. For example, New York in 2005 adopted regulations that increase the reserve requirement by 150% over an eight-year period. Other states may elect to adopt risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. As of December 31, 2006, our operations in Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri and Ohio, were subject to those requirements. Additionally, our insurance subsidiaries that offer PFFS products also are subject to RBC requirements. Our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory net worth due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. Our subsidiaries are also subject to their state regulators’ general oversight powers. Regardless of whether they adopt the risk-based capital requirements, these state regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members. The phased-in increase in reserve requirements to which our New York plan is subject will, over time, materially increase our reserve requirements in New York. In addition, as we continue to expand our plan offerings in new states or pursue new business opportunities, such as our strategy to offer PFFS plans, we may be required to make additional statutory capital contributions. In such a case, our liquidity and cash flows could be materially reduced, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy, for example, by hindering our ability to make debt service payments on amounts drawn from our credit facilities. 19 Back to Table of Contents Our failure to estimate incurred but not reported medical benefits expense accurately will affect our reported financial results. Our medical benefits expense includes estimates of medical claims incurred but not reported, or IBNR. We, together with our internal and consulting actuaries, estimate our medical cost liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for payment patterns, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, utilization of healthcare services and other relevant factors. Actual conditions, however, could differ from those assumed in the estimation process. We continually review and update our estimation methods and the resulting reserves and make adjustments, if necessary, to medical benefits expense when the criteria used to determine IBNR change and when actual claim costs are ultimately determined. Due to the uncertainties associated with the factors used in these assumptions, the actual amount of medical benefits expense that we incur may be materially more than the amount of IBNR originally estimated. If our estimates of IBNR are inadequate in the future, our reported results of operations could be negatively impacted. Further, our inability to estimate IBNR accurately may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of any adverse effect on our results. We derive a large portion of our Medicaid revenues and profits from operations in Florida and Georgia and legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions or other factors that adversely affect those operations could materially reduce our revenues and profits. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our Florida and Georgia Medicaid health plans accounted for 33% and 26% of our total premium revenues, respectively. If we are unable to continue to operate in Florida and Georgia, or if our current operations in any portion of Florida or Georgia are significantly curtailed, our revenues will decrease materially. Our reliance on our Medicaid operations in Florida and Georgia could cause our revenues and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly, depending on legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions and similar factors. For example, in July 2006, Florida implemented a Medicaid reform pilot program in two counties which could cause us to face increased competition from new providers, including provider-sponsored networks, which could reduce our revenues and harm our overall operating results. Further, the legislation that implemented this Medicaid reform contemplates that the program will be expanded to additional counties, including three additional counties in 2007, with the goal of full statewide implementation by June 30, 2011. In Georgia, there has been resistance among providers to the implementation of the new Medicaid managed care program. In response, Georgia has requested that we increase our outreach and communication programs, which could increase our administrative expense of operating in the state. Further, if the Medicaid managed care program in Georgia fails to achieve acceptance among providers, the Georgia legislature could modify the program or repeal it which could have a negative affect on our Georgia results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our Medicare revenues from our PDP operations, and legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions or other factors that adversely affect those operations could materially reduce our revenues and profits. Because PDP plans are relatively new to Medicare and to the health insurance market generally, we do not know whether we will be able to sustain our PDP operation’s profitability over the long-term, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Factors that could effect our PDP operations include: · Legislative: The current Congress is expected to make changes to the Medicare program this year, which may include changes to the Part D benefit. We cannot predict what these changes might include or what effect they might have on our revenues or plans for growth. · Regulatory and administration: Medicare Part D is a new program and CMS may alter the program in a manner that could be detrimental to us. In addition, historically CMS has experienced challenges in the administration of the program which has affected our ability to accurately determine our membership and revenues from our PDP plans. 20 Back to Table of Contents · Utilization of benefits: We are making actuarial assumptions about the utilization of benefits in our PDP plans. Because this continues to be a new program both for the Federal government and for us, there is limited historical basis for these assumptions, and we cannot assure you that these assumptions will prove to be correct or that premiums will be sufficient to cover the benefits provided. · Competition: We have encountered competition from other PDP plans, some of which may have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do and new PDP plans are entering the business. We have entered into a marketing arrangement with Walgreens which is non-exclusive and Walgreens may enter into marketing arrangements with our competitors. We cannot predict whether we will be able to continue to effectively compete in this new market. · Membership: Medicare beneficiaries who are dual-eligibles generally are able to disenroll and choose another PDP plan at any time, and certain Medicare beneficiaries also have a limited ability to disenroll from the plan they initially select and choose a different PDP plan. Medicare beneficiaries who are not dually eligible will be able to change PDP plans during the annual open enrollment period. We may not be able to retain the auto-assigned members or those members who affirmatively choose our PDP plans, and we may not be able to attract new PDP members. Our limited operating history as a stand-alone entity makes evaluating our business and future prospects difficult. We were formed in May 2002 to acquire the WellCare group of companies. Until the closing of that acquisition in July 2002, the companies that comprise our Florida operations had operated as a closely-held business, and our New York and Connecticut businesses had operated as subsidiaries of a public company, the majority stockholders of which were the owners of the Florida operations. Almost all of the senior members of our current management, including Todd S. Farha, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, have worked for us for less than five years. Our limited operating history under current management may not be adequate to enable you to fully assess our future prospects. We may not be able to sustain our high rates of historic growth. From December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2006, our membership grew at an average annual rate of 51.4%. An important aspect of our strategy is continued growth in existing and new markets. We may not be able to sustain our high historical growth rates, which would impair our ability to implement this strategy. For example, we already have a large share of the Florida Medicaid managed care market which is highly penetrated. We also have 5% of the Medicare PDP market share, and do not expect significant future growth in this market. These factors may limit our ability to continue to increase our membership in Florida and Medicare PDP, which are our largest markets. If we are unable to continue to increase our membership in the markets in which we currently operate, we may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our growth strategy if we are unable to make or finance other acquisitions on favorable terms or integrate the businesses we acquire into our existing operations. Acquisitions of contract rights and other health plans are an important element of our growth strategy. We may be unable to identify and complete appropriate acquisitions rapidly enough, if at all, to meet our or our investors’ expectations for future growth. For example, many of the other potential purchasers of contract rights and plans have greater financial resources than we have. The market price of Medicaid plans has generally increased recently, which may increase the amount we are required to pay to complete acquisitions. In addition, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state or federal agencies when making acquisitions, which may require a public hearing. This is the case regardless of whether we already operate a plan in the state in which the business to be acquired is located. We may be unable to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, some sellers may insist on selling assets that we do not want, such as commercial lines of business, or transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable acquisition targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, to the extent we complete acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions because of operational factors or difficulties in integrating the acquisitions with our existing businesses. This may include the integration of: · additional employees, whom we refer to as associates, who are not familiar with our operations; · new provider networks, which may operate on terms different from our existing networks; 21 Back to Table of Contents · additional members, who may decide to transfer to other healthcare providers or health plans; · disparate information, claims processing and record keeping systems; · integration efforts may divert attention of our management team away from our core business; and · accounting policies, including those which require a high degree of judgment or complex estimation processes, such as estimates of medical claims incurred but not reported, accounting for goodwill, intangible assets, stock-based compensation and income tax matters. We may be unable to expand into some geographic areas without incurring significant additional costs. We are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or counties where we do not currently operate. Our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by: · the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary license to operate in the new area or the expansion of our licensed service area, if necessary; · our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; · competition, which increases the costs of recruiting members; · the cost of providing healthcare services in those areas; and · demographics and population density. Accordingly, we may be unsuccessful in entering other metropolitan areas, counties or states, which may impede our growth. Ineffective management of our growth may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, we expect to continue to increase our membership and to expand into other markets. We had total revenue of approximately $1.9 billion and $3.8 billion in 2005 and 2006, respectively. Continued rapid growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources. Our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team and attract, train and retain skilled associates, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to potential acquisitions, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. Several changes to the Medicare program resulting from the MMA legislation that became effective in 2006 could reduce our profitability and increase competition for our existing and prospective members. On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed the MMA. This legislation, which is complex and wide-ranging, made significant changes to the Medicare program. There are numerous provisions in the legislation that affect our Medicare business. We believe that many of these changes have, and will continue to benefit the managed care sector. However, the new bidding process for determining rates, expanded benefits and shifts in certain coverage responsibilities pursuant to the MMA has increased competition and created some uncertainties, including the following: · Plans now offer various products, including regional preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, pursuant to the MMA. Medicare PPOs allow their members more flexibility to select physicians than the MCC plans, such as HMOs, which often require members to coordinate their care through a primary care physician. The Secretary of Health and Human Services created 26 regions for the regional Medicare PPO program. Regional Medicare PPO plans compete with MCC plans and PFFS plans, such as ours. · In order to participate in the Medicare Advantage regional PPO program, a plan must meet certain requirements, including having an adequate provider network throughout the region. The MMA provides some incentives for certain hospitals to join the network. Although we currently do not participate in any Medicare Advantage regional PPO programs, if in the future we decide to participate in the programs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to contract with a sufficient number of providers throughout our regions to satisfy the network adequacy requirements under the MMA that would enable us to participate in the regional product. 22 Back to Table of Contents · The payments for the local and regional Medicare Advantage plans are based on a competitive bidding process that may decrease the amount of premiums paid to us or cause us to increase the benefits we offer. · Organizations that offer MCC plans of the type we offer are required to offer prescription drug benefits in at least one plan in every area they serve. In addition, most Medicare Advantage enrollees choosing to obtain prescription drug benefits are required to do so from their Medicare Advantage plan. Enrollees may prefer a stand-alone drug plan and may disenroll from the Medicare Advantage plan altogether in order to participate in a stand-alone drug plan. Accordingly, the new Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit could reduce our profitability and membership enrollment. · In 2006, we began offering stand-alone PDP plans to Medicare beneficiaries who are not enrolled in one of our Medicare Advantage plans. In addition, Medicare began auto-assigning Medicare dual-eligibles to our stand-alone PDP plans, and as of 2007 we are eligible for auto-assignment in all 50 states. Because PDP plans are still relatively new to Medicare and to the health insurance market generally, we cannot guarantee future profits from this Medicare line of business. · Some enrollees may have chosen our MCC plans in the past rather than an original Medicare fee-for-service plan because of the added drug benefit that we offer with our MCC plans. Following the implementation of the new prescription drug benefit, Medicare beneficiaries have the opportunity to obtain a drug benefit without joining a managed care plan which could affect our membership. · Beginning in 2006, dual-eligibles began to receive their drug coverage from Medicare rather than from Medicaid. Because Medicaid is no longer directly responsible for most drug coverage for dual-eligibles, Medicaid payments to plans have been reduced. Accordingly, this change in Medicaid payments could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Further, dual-eligibles who are auto-enrolled into our PDP plans have the right to switch plans at any time. As a result, there can be no assurance that the dual-eligible beneficiaries who are automatically assigned to us will stay in our PDP plans. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our growth strategy or continuing to participate in certain Medicare programs if we are unable to meet submission and approval deadlines imposed by CMS. CMS has imposed rigorous deadlines for the filing and approval of applications. Meeting these deadlines is important to support our growth strategy. As a result, we must devote extensive resources to preparing and timely filing applications, and we cannot assure you that we will submit any applications by the deadlines imposed by CMS. If we are unable to submit these applications by the applicable deadlines, we may be unsuccessful in implementing our growth strategy, or in continuing the participation of one or more of our plans in the Medicare programs, which could materially adversely affect our revenues and profits. Other changes in federal funding mechanisms also could reduce our profitability. On February 8, 2006, the President signed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the “DRA”). According to the Congressional Budget Office, the provisions of this Act are expected to reduce federal Medicaid spending by $4.8 billion and Medicare spending by $6.4 billion over the next five years. The Medicaid savings provisions that could impact health plans center on additional recipient cost-sharing and flexibility in the design of health benefits by states. Other savings will be achieved through changes in the setting of pharmaceutical prices in Medicaid fee-for-service programs and through restrictions on asset transfers by people seeking to receive Medicaid-funded long term care services. At the same time, the DRA includes an option for states to allow parents of disabled children whose incomes are up to 300% of the federal poverty guidelines to buy-in to Medicaid and allows for the creation of health opportunity accounts in up to ten states. Because we cannot anticipate if and how the states in which we operate will implement these changes, we cannot predict the impact these changes, if any, will have on our operating results. The Medicare savings provisions of the DRA most likely affect health plans by providing for the phase-out, over a five-year period, of so-called “budget neutrality” payments made to Medicare Advantage plans. These changes are consistent with modifications previously planned by CMS and announced in 2005, therefore any adverse impact of these modifications already were anticipated in our operating plans. However, in December 2006, Congress reversed a scheduled 2007 decrease in fee-for-service physician fee schedules which we did not anticipate. The combination of the phase-out of the budget neutrality and the recent freeze on physician fee schedules will have a negative impact on our per-member-per-month revenue trend from our Medicare products. Should CMS implement these provisions in the future in a manner inconsistent with its previously announced plans, this could impact our growth strategy or the continuing participation of one or more of our plans in the Medicare Advantage program, which could materially affect our revenues and profits. 23 Back to Table of Contents In December 2006, Congress also passed, and the President signed, other measures impacting Medicaid, S-CHIP and Medicare, including a reduction in Medicaid provider taxes, including HMO provider taxes, which are used to generate federal revenue. This could have a negative impact on the ability of some states in which we hold Medicaid contracts to fund Medicaid managed care services. Congress also acted to reallocate funding in the S-CHIP program to states facing shortfalls in overall funding for 2007. However, despite this federal action, Georgia continues to face a shortfall in its S-CHIP program in 2007. If Congress does not reallocate funds for 2007, Georgia may reduce eligibility or benefits for its S-CHIP program which would negatively impact our Georgia S-CHIP business. Several other states in which we operate will face similar shortfalls in the funding of their S-CHIP programs if Congress does not increase annual allotments in its 2008-2012 reauthorization. Congressional leaders have indicated their intention to look carefully at many aspects of the Medicare program this year and to make further changes. We cannot predict what these changes might include and what effect they might have on our existing business or our plans for growth. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, and we have not yet determined what our total compliance costs will be. Regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, such as healthcare providers, business associates, and our members. These regulations include standards for common healthcare transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, and payment information; unique identifiers for providers (commencing May 2007) and employers; security; privacy and enforcement. HIPAA also provides that to the extent that state laws impose privacy standards that are not contrary to HIPAA (which may include standards that are more stringent than HIPAA privacy regulations), a state seeks and receives an exception from the Department of Health and Human Services regarding certain state laws, or state laws concern certain specified areas, such state standards and laws will not be preempted. The Department of Health and Human Services finalized the transaction standards on August 17, 2000. However, Congress delayed for one year the transaction standards’ original implementation deadline of October 16, 2002 for providers such as us that submitted a compliance plan by the original implementation deadline. In response to CMS guidance, we adopted a contingency plan in July 2003, pursuant to which we continue to process HIPAA standard transactions and also engage in legacy transactions as appropriate. The Department issued the privacy standards on December 28, 2000, and after certain delays, the privacy standards became effective on April 14, 2001, with a compliance date of April 14, 2003 for most covered payers and providers, including us. The security standards became effective on April 21, 2003, with a compliance date of April 20, 2005 for most covered entities, including us. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA health information provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions. Given HIPAA’s complexity and the possibility that the regulations may change and may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with any of the HIPAA requirements is uncertain. Furthermore, a state’s ability to promulgate stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance with applicable health information laws more difficult. For these reasons, we are unable to calculate reliably what our total compliance costs will be. Future changes in healthcare law may reduce our profitability or liquidity. Healthcare laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could reduce our profitability, among other things, by: · imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; · increasing our administrative and other costs; 24 Back to Table of Contents · requiring us to undergo a corporate restructuring; · increasing mandated benefits; · limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; · requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; or · requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Changes in state law, regulations and rules also may adversely affect our profitability. Requirements relating to managed care consumer protection standards, including increased plan information disclosure, limits to premium increases, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim payment timing, physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or continue to be under discussion. Future healthcare legislation or regulation may require us to change the way we operate our business, which may be costly. Further, although we believe we have exercised care in structuring our operations to attempt to comply in all material respects with the laws and regulations applicable to us, government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing such laws and/or regulations have in the past asserted and may in the future assert that we or transactions in which we are involved are in violation of these laws, or courts may ultimately interpret such laws in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Therefore, it is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the Medicaid, Medicare and S-CHIP programs and to continue to serve our members and attract new members. State regulatory restrictions on our marketing activities may constrain our membership growth and our ability to increase our revenues. Although we enroll some of our new members through automatic enrollment programs and voluntary member enrollment, we rely on our marketing and sales efforts for a significant portion of our membership growth. All of the states in which we currently operate permit marketing but impose strict requirements and limitations as to the types of marketing activities that are permitted. In Florida and New York, other Medicaid plans have been prohibited from engaging in marketing activities for a period of time after being found to have violated the state’s requirements. While no such action is currently pending or threatened against us, from time to time we have been cited, and in some cases fined, for alleged marketing violations. In circumstances where our marketing efforts are prohibited or curtailed, our ability to increase or sustain membership will be significantly harmed, which will adversely affect our revenue. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our providers, our profitability could decline and we may be precluded from operating in some markets. Our profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to enter into cost-effective contracts with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers in appropriate numbers in our geographic markets and at convenient locations for our members. In any particular market, however, providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical benefits expense. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions. If such a provider or any of our other providers refused to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate contracts that might not be cost-effective or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage, those activities could adversely affect our operating results in that market area. Also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. In the long term, our ability to contract successfully with a sufficiently large number of providers in a particular geographic market will affect the relative attractiveness of our managed care products in that market. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating satisfactory contracts with our network providers, it could preclude us from renewing our Medicaid or Medicare contracts in those markets or from entering into new markets. Also, in situations where we have a gap in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could adversely affect our ability to manage expenses. Our provider contracts with network primary care physicians and specialists generally have terms of one year, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms. We may terminate these contracts for cause, based on provider conduct or other appropriate reasons, subject to laws giving providers due process rights. The contracts generally may be cancelled by either party without cause upon 60 or 90 days prior written notice. Our contracts with hospitals generally have terms of one to two years, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms. We may terminate these contracts for cause, based on provider misconduct or other appropriate reasons. Our hospital contracts generally may be cancelled by either party without cause upon 120 days prior written notice. We may be unable to continue to renew such contracts or enter into new contracts enabling us to serve our members profitably. Also, in some states, such as New York, automatic renewal provisions may not be enforceable unless the parties comply with certain notice provisions prior to the renewal date. We will be required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. Although we have established long-term relationships with many of our network providers, we may be unable to maintain those relationships or enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or under favorable terms. If we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability could decline. 25 Back to Table of Contents If a state fails to renew or alter the terms of its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. A significant percentage of our Medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory Medicaid enrollment in managed care plans. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care through CMS-approved plan amendments or under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by CMS. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state in which we operate does not renew its mandated program, alters the terms of its waiver in a way that limits mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care, or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. We rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by the government to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists cause such governments to recoup premium payments from us, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. Premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by the government. From time to time, governments require us to reimburse them for premiums that we received that were based on an eligibility list that such government later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. We determine potential liabilities and reserve for such situations. However, we are uncertain what the final impact to us could be in certain situations. In addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a government could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. Our profitability would be reduced as a result of the government’s failure to pay us for related payments to providers we made and we were unable to recoup such payments from the providers. We have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the government of previously paid premiums, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. If the amount of any recoupments exceeds our reserves, our revenues and profits may be materially harmed. The inability or failure to properly maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs could result in operational disruptions and other adverse consequences. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. The information gathered and processed by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis and e-commerce. These systems also support our customer services functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. These systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. There can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment and customer service. There can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. 26 Back to Table of Contents We have contracted with various business process outsourcing vendors to provide significant portions of our operational support including, but not limited to, certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration and claims processing functions. This dependence makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to perform adequately under our contracts with them. Significant failure to perform under the terms of our contracts by these third parties could negatively affect our results of operations. Additionally, events outside our control, including acts of nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or fires, or terrorism, could significantly impair our information systems and applications. To ensure continued operations in the event that our primary data center operations are rendered inoperable, in 2005, we implemented our disaster recovery plan and business continuity of operations plans addressing manual downtime and automated recovery procedures for our claims production application. We have a hot-site and business recovery site agreement with SunGard Recovery Services LP to provide for the restoration of our general support systems at the remote processing center. We will perform our annual disaster recovery testing for all critical lines of business in 2007. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if they are not prevented. We may not have adequate intellectual property rights in our brand names for our health plans, and we may be unable to adequately enforce such rights. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to market our health plans under our brand names, including “WellCare,” “HealthEase,” “Staywell” and “Harmony.” While we hold federal trademark registrations for the “WellCare” trademark, we have not taken enforcement action to prevent infringement of our federal trademark and have not secured registrations of all of our other marks. Other businesses may have prior rights in the brand names that we market under or in similar names, which could limit or prevent our ability to use these marks, or to prevent others from using similar marks. If we are unable to prevent others from using our brand names, or if others prohibit us from using them, our revenues could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to protect our intellectual property rights in such brands, we could incur significant costs in doing so. We encounter significant competition that may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, which may harm our growth and our operating results. We operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes due to business consolidations, new strategic alliances and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations. We compete for members principally on the basis of size, location and quality of provider network, benefits provided, quality of service and reputation. A number of these competitive elements are partially dependent upon and can be positively affected by financial resources available to a health plan. Many other organizations with which we compete have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, changes resulting from the MMA, or state Medicaid reform or other initiatives, may bring additional competitors into our market area. As a result, we may be unable to increase or maintain our membership. We have debt obligations that could restrict our operations. We have outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2006, including approximately $155.6 million in borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, which expire in May 2009. We have available borrowing capacity under our senior secured revolving credit facility of approximately $125.0 million, which expires in May 2008. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: ● increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; ● limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 27 Back to Table of Contents ● limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and ● exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our senior credit facilities is variable. Our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures which could impede our growth. If our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt which could harm our long-term business prospects. Restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and instruments governing our additional indebtedness may limit our ability to make certain acquisitions and declare dividends. The documents governing our senior secured credit facilities contain various restrictions and covenants, including prescribed fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios and limitations on capital expenditures and acquisitions, that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to make certain acquisitions and declare dividends without lender approval. Our failure to comply with covenants in our debt instruments could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable and the loss of our assets. Our credit facilities are secured by a pledge of stock of our operating subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of substantially all of the assets of our non-regulated entities. If we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, it may result in one or more events of default, including cross-defaults among multiple portions of our indebtedness. These events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owing to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay indebtedness owed to our secured creditors, they could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We may not be able to retain our executive officers, and the loss of any one or more of these officers, including, in particular, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and their managed care expertise would adversely affect our business. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and our other senior executives, each of whom has been instrumental in developing our business strategy and forging our business relationships. Although some of our executives have entered into employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for those executives to continue their employment with us. While we believe that we could find replacements, the loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of Mr. Farha and our other executive officers could adversely affect our business. Replacing one or more of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the managed care industry have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers other than our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and such insurance may not be sufficient to cover the costs of recruiting and hiring a replacement Chief Executive Officer or the loss of his services. Our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, technical and medical personnel. We may be unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining such personnel, which could adversely affect our operations. 28 Back to Table of Contents Claims relating to medical malpractice and other litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses. Our providers involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. An increasing percentage of these providers do not have malpractice insurance. Due to increased costs or inability to secure malpractice insurance, the percentage of physicians who do not have malpractice insurance may increase, particularly in Florida, our largest market. Although our network providers are independent contractors, claimants sometimes allege that a managed care organization such as us should be held responsible for alleged provider malpractice, particularly where the provider does not have malpractice insurance, and some courts have permitted that theory of liability. In addition, managed care organizations may be sued directly for alleged negligence, such as in connection with the credentialing of network providers or for alleged improper denials or delay of care. In addition, Congress and several states have considered or are considering legislation that would expressly permit managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations. Any legislature or judicial efforts in this area could increase our exposure to medical malpractice claims, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. From time to time, we are party to various other litigation matters, some of which seek monetary damages. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we might incur substantial expense in defending these or future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. We maintain errors and omissions policies as well as other insurance coverage and, in some cases, indemnification rights that we believe are adequate based on industry standards. However, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance or indemnity, our insurers or indemnifying parties may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance or indemnification coverage may be inadequate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Growth in the number of Medicaid eligibles may be counter-cyclical to general economic conditions, which could adversely affect our operating results in an improving economic environment. The number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline if economic conditions continue to improve. Therefore, improvements in general economic conditions may cause our membership levels to decrease, thereby causing our operating results to suffer, which could lead to decreases in our stock price during periods in which stock prices in general are increasing. Negative publicity may harm our business and operating results. The managed care industry is frequently subject to negative publicity. In the past, our company has received negative publicity. This publicity may lead to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and litigation. These factors may adversely affect our ability to market our services, require us to change our services and increase the regulatory or legal burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and adversely affecting our operating results. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our affiliates to us, our liquidity could be materially impaired. We operate our business principally through our health plan subsidiaries, which generally are subject to laws and regulations that limit either the amount of dividends and distributions that they can pay to us or the amount of fees that may be paid to affiliates of our health plan subsidiaries without prior approval of, or notification of, state regulators. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend is not clearly defined. Health plans that declare non-extraordinary dividends must usually provide notice to the regulators in advance of the intended distribution date of a non-extraordinary dividend. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us or to pay fees to the affiliates of our health plan subsidiaries, the funds available to our company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. For example, we could be hindered in our ability to make debt service payments on amounts drawn from our credit facilities. None of our health plan subsidiaries paid any dividends during 2004, 2005 or 2006. However, the aggregate amounts our Florida health plan subsidiaries could have paid us at December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 without approval of the regulatory authorities were $7.2 million, $59.0 million and $37.2 million, respectively, assuming no dividends had been paid during the respective periods. No dividends were available to be paid from our New York and Connecticut health plan subsidiaries during those periods. Moreover, the recently adopted increase in reserve requirements in New York may further hinder the ability of our New York managed care plan to pay dividends. If our regulators were to deny or significantly further restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us or to pay management fees to our affiliates, the funds available to us as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. For example, we could be hindered in our ability to make debt service payments on amounts drawn from our credit facility. 29 Back to Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales, or the availability for sale, of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding options to purchase 2,906,360 shares of our common stock, of which 956,790 were exercisable, at a weighted-average exercise price of $30.64 per share. From time to time, we may issue additional options to associates, non-employee directors and consultants pursuant to our equity incentive plans. The provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law, could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and make it more difficult for a stockholder to elect directors of its choosing. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and provisions of applicable Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that stockholders may consider unfavorable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 