ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. For example, other risks include, but are not limited to: governmental approvals for the acquisition of the Company by Wells Fargo & Company may not be obtained or adverse regulatory conditions may be imposed in connection with governmental approvals of the proposed 19 Table of Contents acquisition by Wells Fargo & Company; our shareholders may fail to provide the required approvals to consummate the acquisition; factors may occur which result in a condition to the acquisition of us by Wells Fargo & Company not being satisfied. Additional risks or uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. We face risks associated with the acquisition of Southwest Community Bancorp relating to difficulties in integrating combined operations, potential disruption of operations and related negative impact on earnings and incurrence of substantial expenses. We recently acquired Southwest Community Bancorp. In connection with this acquisition, we face risks commonly encountered, including disruption of our ongoing business, difficulty in integrating acquired operations and personnel, inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control system, and inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with this acquisition. We cannot assure you that integration of acquired Southwest Community Bank’s or its banking centers’ operations will be successfully accomplished. The inability to improve the operating performance of Southwest Community Bank and its banking centers or to integrate successfully their operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our balance sheet is asset sensitive. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2006 our balance sheet was asset sensitive in an environment where the yield curve moves in a parallel fashion to changes in short term interest rates, which means that our net interest margin tends to expand in a rising interest rate environment and decline in a falling interest rate environment. However, our funding costs have increased faster than the movement in rates across the yield curve, which has had the effect of nullifying any positive effect of the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet. In early 2006, we increased rates paid on deposit accounts to retain existing customers and attract new deposit customers. Then, at the end of the third quarter of 2006, we changed our approach to managing liquidity and significantly reduced rates offered on deposit accounts compared to rates offered within our market areas. As short-term rates continue to rise, retention of existing deposit customers and the attraction of new deposit customers may require us to increase rates we pay on deposit accounts faster than increases in interest rates across the yield curve. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. Falling interest rate environments may cause additional refinancing of commercial real estate and 1-4 family residence loans, which may depress our loan volumes or cause rates on loans to decline. In addition, an increase in the general level of short-term interest rates on variable rate loans may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations or reduce the amount they wish to borrow. 20 Table of Contents The types of loans in our portfolio have a higher degree of risk and a downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business. A downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because most of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 89.2% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, especially in California, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. Real estate values could also be negatively affected by, among other things, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. The median sales price of an existing single-family detached home in California increased 3.7% from December 2005 to December 2006, while the number of homes sold decreased 15.3% during the same period. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. A significant amount of our deposits are concentrated in a few customers and loss of any of these customers could significantly impact our growth and earnings. We plan to increase significantly the level of our assets, including our loan portfolio. Our ability to increase our assets depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We intend to seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets and by establishing personal relationships with our customers. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, we had one significant deposit customer, which represented 12.3% of total deposits and 29.4% of non-interest bearing deposits. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we were notified by this depositor that they intend to withdraw all of its deposit balances by the end of the first quarter of 2007. The depositor, a nationwide mortgage service company, is consolidating all of its operations into its Midwest headquarters. The loss of this customer will significantly impact our growth and earnings. Our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole source of gains in the future. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends will continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the bank. Our ability to pay dividends is also subject to the restrictions of the California General Corporation Law. The ability of the bank to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is subject to the regulatory authority of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, and the California Department of Financial Institutions or the DFI. As of December 31, 2006, the bank could have paid approximately $16.2 million in dividends without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve or the DFI. The amount the bank may pay in dividends may be further restricted due to the fact that the bank must maintain a certain minimum amount of capital to be considered a “well-capitalized” institution. The amount available for payment of dividends to us by the bank for the bank to remain “well-capitalized” immediately thereafter totaled $20.3 million at December 31, 2006, which is greater than the statutory and regulatory provisions. Accordingly, the maximum amount available for payment to the holding company is $16.2 million without prior regulatory approval. 21 Table of Contents From time to time, we may become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or the bank from declaring or paying dividends. Our holding company expenses and obligations with respect to our trust preferred securities and corresponding junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture issued by us may limit or impair our ability to declare or pay dividends. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by certain covenants contained in the indentures pursuant to which we issued the subordinated deferrable interest debentures. On a stand-alone basis, we rely on dividends from the bank as our sole source of liquidity. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal control we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control as defined under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, that require remediation. Under the PCAOB standards, a “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affect a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal controls, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission about our periodic and current reports within the last 180 days and, accordingly, we do not have any unresolved comments from the staff. 